.TH proc 5 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
proc \- virtual directory with files describing the system

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fB/proc\fP filesystem is inspired by the one in Linux, though it is not
a complete recreation.

.SH FILES
The virtual files available under \fB/proc\fP may vary based on the platform
and what modules have been loaded, but the default set includes:

.TP
.IR /proc/ pid
A directory entry which appears for every running process. Further information
is available in
.IR proc_pid (5).

.TP
.I /proc/cmdline
The kernel command line. Read\-only.

.TP
.I /proc/compiler
A description of the compiler that was used to build the kernel. Generally this
is \fBgcc\fP followed by the contents of \fB__VERSION__\fP at the time the
kernel was built.

.TP
.I /proc/cpuinfo
Information about the system's processors. The format of this information is
architecture\-dependent, but should always consist of a set of labels followed
by a colon, a space, and then a value. These sets will be separated by a blank
line between individual CPUs, with one set per core. Only cores the kernel has
been able to bring online will appear.

.TP
.I /proc/filesystems
A list of the names of available mountable filesystems.

.TP
.I /proc/framebuffer
Information on the graphical framebuffer, if a driver has set one up.

.TP
.I /proc/idle
CPU non\-usage data. One line is printed for each core consisting of the core
ID, a colon, a space, and then the 4 latest core usage samples. These values
represent the inverse of usage. The timing used to generate these numbers is
subject to variance: Generally, 1000 means fully idle, but the value may be
slightly more than that. Numbers under 1000 indicate core usage. 0 means a
core has been fully pegged and not reported any idle time during that sample
window.

.TP
.I /proc/kallsyms
An \fBnm\fP\-style listing of dynamic symbols known to the kernel. These symbols
come from both the kernel's symbol table and the symbol tables of loaded modules.
For users other than \fBroot\fP, this listing will show all 0s for the address.

.TP
.I /proc/loader
A description of the bootloader that loaded ToaruOS. How this value is obtained
is platform\-dependent. When booted with a Multiboot or Multiboot2 bootloader,
the \fBboot_loader_name\fP field or the \fBboot loader name\fP tag will be used.
This file may be blank if the platform does not supply a name for the loader.

.TP
.I /proc/meminfo
Shows information about available memory. \fBMemTotal\fP and \fBMemFree\fP indicate
system memory, while \fBKHeapUse\fP indicates how much memory the kernel's heap
is currently consuming.

.TP
.I /proc/modules
A listing of loaded kernel modules, their base addresses, file sizes, and size in
memory. The availability of base addresses for users other than \fBroot\fP is
subject to change in the future.

.TP
.I /proc/mounts
A listing of mounted filesystems, including virtual devices that are directly
mounted to the VFS tree. The format of this listing is:
.sp
  \fI/path/of/mount\fP \fIfs-name\fP [\fIargs...\fP]

.TP
.I /proc/pci
A bus scan listing of PCI devices, if PCI is available on the platform. This file
is read by
.IR lspci (1)
to form a more human\-readable output.

.TP
.I /proc/self
A dynamic symlink to the directory entry in \fI/proc\fP representing the process that
opened or executed
.IR readlink (2)
on it.

.TP
.I /proc/tmpfs
Information on the blocks used by the \fBtmpfs\fP in blocks. The block size is 4K.

.TP
.I /proc/uptime
The time since the system booted and obtained an initial clock time, in seconds
with a fractional part.

.TP
.I /proc/version
The version string for the kernel, similar to the output of \fBuname \-srvm\fP.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpu\-widget (1),
.BR free (1),
.BR kcmdline (1),
.BR lspci (1),
.BR uptime (1),
.BR libtoaru_procfs (3)

