.TH getopt 3 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
.BR getopt ", " getopt_long ", " optarg ", " optind ", " opterr ", " optopt
\- parse command line options

.SH LIBRARY
Standard C library (\fIlibc\fP, \fI\-lc\fP)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getopt(int \fIargc\fP, char *\fIargv\fP[], const char *\fIopstring\fP);
.sp
.B extern char * \fIoptarg\fP;
.br
.B extern int \fIoptind\fP, \fIopterr\fP, \fIoptopt\fP;
.sp
.B #include <getopt.h>
.sp
.B extern int getopt_long(int \fIargc\fP, char *\fIargv\fP[], const char *\fIoptstring\fP,
.br
.B                        const struct option *\fIlongopts\fP, int *\fIlongindex\fP);

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgetopt()\fP function is a parser for command-line options.
.PP
This manual page mostly describes how this implementation may differ from
other implementations.
For more details on how to use these functions, please reference another manual source.
.PP
This implementation is modeled on a mix of behavior from the GNU and BSD versions.
If the first character of \fIoptstring\fP is not a '+', arguments will be permutated
such that all non-option arguments end up at the end of the argument list while
maintaining their original ordering;
otherwise, parsing will stop at the first non-option.
POSIX.1\-2024 now requires conforming implementations to accept this leading '+',
particularly when considering whether the "first" character of \fIoptstring\fP is
a ':', which must appear after the '+'.
.PP
If, after any leading '+', the first charcter of \fIoptstring\fP is ':', then \fBgetopt\fP
returns ':' instead of '?' when it encounters an option which requires an argument but
which appeared at the end of the argument list.
.PP
This implementation only considers ':' to be an invalid option character and will
reject it when processing short options.
All other single bytes, including '\-', are accepted, though '\-' will not be processed
when using \fBgetopt_long\fP (unless \fIlongopts\fP is \fBNULL\fP).
Note that for '+' to be an accepted option character, it must not be the first character
in optstring.
.PP
A lone '\-' is considered to be a non-option, while '\-\-' will stop parsing but not
be considered a non-option (if any non-options were found before '\-\-', the '\-\-'
will be permutated to appear before those non-options, unless \fIopstring\fP started
with a '+').
.PP
This implementation does not provide any special handling of \fB\-W\fP as a way to
provide long options, nor does it accept a leading '\-' in \fIopstring\fP to mean
any sort of special processing of non-option arguments as the arguments to an option,
both of which are GNU extensions.
.PP
This implementation supports optional arguments to short options when two ':'
characters follow the option character in \fIoptstring\fP.
Such optional arguments are to be supplied after the option character within
the same command line argument.
.PP
Required arguments may appear either within the same command line argument,
or as the next command line argument. In either case, no further processing
of short options will happen for the command line argument in which such
an option appeared.
.PP
Each time \fBgetopt\fP returns, the value of \fIoptind\fP indicates the next
command line argument to be processed.
When processing a command line argument with multiple short options,
\fBgetopt\fP may return multiple times without changing \fIoptind\fP;
incomplete processing of these arguments is tracked in an internal variable.
.PP
If \fIoptind\fP is changed between calls to \fIgetopt\fP, the function will
attempt to restart processing from the new \fIoptind\fP.
If \fIoptind\fP is set to 0, \fBgetopt\fP will attempt to restart processing
from the beginning of the argument list (as if \fIoptind\fP were 1).

.SS getopt_long()

\fIlongopts\fP should point to an array of \fIstruct option\fP elements:

    struct option {
        const char *name;
        int has_arg;
        int *flag;
        int val;
    };

The fields work as follows:

.TP
.I name
The option string to match.

.TP
.I has_arg
Should be one of \fBno_argument\fP, \fBrequired_argument\fP, or \fBoptional_argument\fP,
each of which is defined as a macro in \fB<getopt.h>\fP.

.TP
.I flag
When set, the value in \fIval\fP will be stored in the integer pointed to by \fIflag\fP
if this option is encountered (and 0 will be returned).

.TP
.I val
If \fIflag\fP is \fBNULL\fP, this value will be returned by \fBgetopt_long\fP when this
option is encountered.
If \fIflag\fP is set, this value will be stored in the integer pointed to by \fIflag\fP.

.PP
Long options which take a required argument may be specified in the command line either
with the argument included alongside the option (\fB\-\-option=argument\fP), or with
the argument as the follow command line argument. Long options which accept an optional
argument may only receive the argument alongside the option (with an '=').
.PP
When a recognized long option, or an unambiguous abbreviation of one, is processed
successfully, without a mismatch in arguments, \fBgetopt_long\fP will store the index
of the option in the integer pointed to by \fIlongindex\fP, if it is not a \fBNULL\fP pointer.
\fIoptopt\fP will not be modified in this case.
.PP
When an ambiguous or unknown long option is encountered, \fBgetopt_long\fP will return '?'
and \fIoptopt\fP will be set to 0.
If \fIopterr\fP has not been set to 0, ambiguous options will produce a list of possible
matches in the resulting diagnostic message, and unknown options will produce an appropriate
diagnostic message.
.PP
If an option which requires an argument does not have one (eg. it appears at the end of
the argument list and does not have a '=' after it), \fBgetopt_long\fP will return '?'
or, if the first character of \fIoptstring\fP, after any leading '+', was a ':', then it will return ':'.
If an option which does not accept an argument has one (eg. it is followed by a '='), then
\fBgetopt_long\fP will return '?' regardless.
In both cases, \fIoptopt\fP will be set to the \fIval\fP for the option and, if \fIopterr\fP
was not set to 0, a diagnostic message will be printed.
This implementation also stores the index of the option in \fBlongindex\fP even if its
arguments are not as expected.

.SH PERMUTATION
When the first character in \fIoptstring\fP is not '+', this implementation permutates
arguments to place non-option arguments after option arguments (and their arguments,
if any), while maintaining the relative orders of each set.
.PP
Permutation occurs at two points:

- Upon entry to \fBgetopt\fP, any non-options encountered while processing the previous
arguments will be permutated to be after that argument (and before the argument indicated
by \fIoptind\fP).
.sp
- Before returning -1 to indicate the end of arguments (either because the argument list
has been exhausted, or '\-\-' was encountered), any non-option arguments that were
encountered during processing will be placed after the last option argument, or after
the terminating '\-\-', and \fIoptind\fP will be set to the index of the first non-option
argument.

.SH STANDARDS

.TP
.B getopt()
POSIX.1\-2024

.TP
.B getopt_long()
Should conform reasonably well to the GNU implementation.

.SH HISTORY
The ToaruOS implementation of \fBgetopt\fP and \fBgetopt_long\fP did not historically support
abbreviations, argument reordering, or optional arguments to short options.
