.TH libtoaru_procfs 3 "March, 2026"
.SH NAME
libtoaru_procfs \- common utilities for dealing with ToaruOS's /procfs
.SH SYNOPSIS
 \fB#include <toaru/procfs.h>\fP
.sp
 \fB#define PROCFSLIB_NO_FREE\fP
 \fB#define PROCFSLIB_NO_THREADS\fP
 \fB#define PROCFSLIB_COLLECT_COMMANDLINE\fP
 \fB#define PROCFSLIB_COLLECT_STARTTIME\fP
 \fB#define PROCFSLIB_NO_CURLY_THREADS\fP
.sp
 \fIint\fP \fBprocfs_iterate\fP(\fIint\fP (\fI*callback\fP)(\fIstruct process *\fP,\fIvoid\fP), \fIvoid *ctx\fP, \fIint flags\fP);
.sp
 \fIint\fP \fBprocfs_free\fP(\fIstruct process*\fP);
.SH DESCRIPTION
This library is used by various utilities to facilitate iterating over
entries in the \fB/procfs\fP virtual directory.
.PP
The library provides a callback\-driven interface that collects
information on each process into a struct, with options to control
what information is collected.
.nf
.sp
struct process {
	int pid;                /* The thread ID, despite the name. */
	int ppid;               /* The parent process ID. */
	int tgid;               /* "Thread group ID", aka the real PID. */
	int pgid;               /* Process group ID. */
	int uid, mem, vsz, shm; /* User, mem%, virtual memory size, shared memory size. */
	int cpu[4];             /* CPU%, and three previous sample values. */
	unsigned long time;     /* Process time. */
	char *name;             /* Simplified process name. */
	char *path;             /* Process binary path. */
	char * state;           /* State symbol. */
	time_t starttime;       /* Start time, if requested. */
	char * cmdline;         /* Command line, if requested and available. */
	size_t cmdline_len;     /* Length of the command line, in case it contains NUL. */
	int user_data;          /* Available for library users. */
	void * user_pdata;      /* Available for library users. */
};
.fi
.sp
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR killall (1),
.IR pidof (1),
.IR ps (1),
.IR top (1)

