.TH yutani_window_create 3 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fByutani_window_create\fP, \fByutani_window_create_flags\fP \- open new windows

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <toaru/yutani.h>
.sp
\fIyutani_window_t\fP * \fByutani_window_create\fP(\fIyutani_t\fP * \fIyctx\fP,
\fIint\fP \fIwidth\fP, \fIint\fP \fIheight\fP);
.br
\fIyutani_window_t\fP * \fByutani_window_create_flags\fP(\fIyutani_t\fP * \fIyctx\fP,
\fIint\fP \fIwidth\fP, \fIint\fP \fIheight\fP, \fIuint32_t\fP \fIflags\fP, ...);

.SH DESCRIPTION
These function create new windows in the compositor.
.PP
By default, new windows will have no content, will animate when shown by
expanding horizontally and vertically and fading in (and do the inverse when
closed), acquire focus when shown, be resizing and draggable, and not
have any parenting relationship. The \fIflags\fP supplied to
\fByutani_window_create_flags\fP allow these behaviors to be altered.

.SS Flags
.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_NO_STEAL_FOCUS
Do not automatically switch focus to this window when it is created.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_DISALLOW_DRAG
Do not allow this window to be moved by the user.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_DISALLOW_RESIZE
Do not allow this window to be resized by the user.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_ALT_ANIMATION
Use an alternate animation mode for this window. The window will fade in and out without scaling.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_DIALOG_ANIMATION
Use an alternate animation mode for this window. The window will expand and shrink vertically.
For consistent visual styling, this option should be used with modal dialogs.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_NO_ANIMATION
Do not animate this window. The window will appear and disappear immediately when opened and closed.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_BLUR_BEHIND
Render semi\-transparent areas behind this window by blurring them. This option is very slow
and recommended only for small and short-lived windows.

.TP
.B YUTANI_WINDOW_FLAG_PARENT_WID
Set the parent for this window. An additional argument of type \fIyutani_wid_t\fP will be consumed
from the varargs.

.SH NOTES
Windows created by these functions will not be displayed until a
.IR yutani_flip (3)
or
.IR yutani_flip_region (3)
is issued for them. This process is known as "revealing" the window. This allows the client
to create the window and paint content to its texture before it is animated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR compositor (1),
.BR yutani_flip (3)
