.TH dprintf 9 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBdprintf\fP \- print debug messages to the system console

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <kernel/printf.h>
.sp
\fIint\fP \fBdprintf\fP(\fIconst\fP \fIchar\fP *\fIfmt\fP, ...);

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdprintf\fP function prints a log message to the system console, prefixed by a timestamp.
The format strings accepted by \fBdprintf\fP are generally the same as
.IR printf (3),
though the kernel has some restrictions. When a single call to \fBdprintf\fP prints
multiple lines, the additional lines after the first one will be indented to match
the spacing of the timestamp printed for that call. For example, a call like:
.sp
	dprinf("hello\enworld\en");
.sp
Will result in output like this:
.sp
	[  123.456789] hello
	               world
.sp
The leading timestamp can be elided by prefixing the format string with \fB\ea (bell)\fP.
This special behavior is only applicable to the format string (a bell character
appearing as the first character as a result of formatting from an argument will
not exhibit this behavior). Such lines are not subject to indentation adjustment.
.PP
Callers should take to always include a line feed at the end of their log entries
in most circumstances. Without a trailing line feed, the output of the next call
to \fBdprintf\fP will appear on the same line. This behavior may be desirable in
combination with the \fB\ea\fP special character described above, as a single
log line can be formed by multiple calls to \fBdprintf\fP in this way.

.SH NOTES
There is also a \fBprintf\fP function available in the kernel. That function directly
outputs to whatever function has been bound as \fBprintf_output\fP and its use is
strongly discouraged.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR console (4),
.BR printf (3)
