.TH ABOUT-DIALOG 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBabout\-dialog\fP \- display an informational dialog

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBabout\-dialog\fP [{\fB\-\-title\fP|\fB\-\-title\-about\fP} \fItitle\fP] [\fB\-\-icon\fP \fIicon\fP]
[\fB\-\-logo\fP \fIlogo\fP] [\fB\-\-version\fP \fIversion\fP]
             [\fB\-\-parent\fP \fIwid\fP] [\fB\-\-at\fP \fIx\fP,\fIy\fP] \fIbody\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Similar to
.IR showdialog (1),
the \fBabout\-dialog\fP displays a configurable window with information about an application.
.PP
This utility replaces the old \fBabout\fP utility from previous releases of ToaruOS, moving
most of the configuration to option arguments.
.PP
Each \fIbody\fP argument will be displayed as a line in the dialog.
A \fBbody\fP argument may begin with \fB'%'\fP (the percent character) to render
the text in blue, or begin with a \fB'\-'\fP (dash) to not render the line and instead
insert a small vertical space.
.PP
The dialog will be sized vertically to fit the provided logo and text.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-\-title \fItitle\fP
Set the \fItitle\fP of the window.

.TP
.B \-\-title\-about \fItitle\fP
Set the \fItitle\fP of the window, but prepend \fItitle\fP with "About".

.TP
.B \-\-icon \fIicon\fP
Set the \fIicon\fP to use in window advertisements for the dialog.
This should be an icon name accepted by
.IR libtoaru_icon_cache (3),
and not a path.
The default is \fBgeneric\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-logo \fIlogo\fP
Set the \fIlogo\fP to display in the dialog, which may be either an
icon name accepted by
.IR libtoaru_icon_cache (3),
or a path to an image.
The default is \fBgeneric\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-name \fIversion\fP
Set the \fIname\fP of the application to display in the dialog.
This often includes a version number, like "ToaruOS 2.3".

.TP
.B \-\-at \fIx\fP,\fIy\fP
Center the dialog box at these coordinates.
When combined with the \fB\-\-parent\fP option, the coordinates are
relative to the upper left of the parent window; to center a dialog
within a window, use half the width and height as the argument to
\fB\-\-at\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-parent \fIwid\fP
Make the dialog a child window of \fIwid\fP.
With the \fB\-\-at\fP option, the dialog box will be centered at the
upper left corner of the parent window, which is probably not what
you want.

.SH BUGS
The utility will not wrap text.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR showdialog (1)
