.TH ABOUT 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBabout\fP \- display a window with application information

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBabout\fP
.br
\fBabout\fP \fItitle\fP \fIicon\fP \fIversion\fP \fIdescription\fP [\fIx\fP \fIy\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBabout\fP utility displays a window describing an application.
.PP
With no arguments, the utility will describe the operating system.
.PP
With the arguments, the utility is intended to be launched from the
"Help > About" menu in a graphical application. The agruments should
describe the application as follows:

.TP
.I title
A title to use with the window decorations, such as "About Terminal".

.TP
.I icon
The full path to an image loadable by
.IR load_sprite (3)
to be displayed as an icon or logo.

.TP
.I version
The application's name and version, such as "ToaruOS 2.3.0" or "Terminal 1.0".
Just the name of the application is also permissible. The version string
will be drawn in bold text.

.TP
.I description
A set of lines describing the application. A line containing only a '-'
will result in a small vertical gap. A line beginning with '%' (the
percent symbol) will be drawn in blue text and is suitable for URLs.
An entirely blank line will halt processing early. Other lines will be
displayed in black text.

.PP
Additionally, if provided, \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP describe the display
coordinate at which the window should be centered. Usually, this is the
center of some other main application window.

.SH BUGS
- The window size is not adjusted to fit the displayed content.
.br
- Text is not wrapped.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sysinfo (1),
.BR uname (1)
