.TH BEEP 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBbeep\fP \- beep the PC speaker

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbeep\fP \fIBEEP\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBbeep\fP utility produces tones with the PC speaker.
The tones are specified through a series of arguments that set the
duration, delay, frequency, and reptitions of the tones.

.TP
.B \-r \fIreps\fP
Repeat the next tone \fIreps\fP times. The default reptition count is 1.

.TP
.B \-f \fIfreq\fP
Play the next tone at \fIfreq\fP Hz. 440 is A4. Fractional values are supported.
The default frequency is 440.0Hz.

.TP
.B \-l \fItime\fP
Play the next tone for \fItime\fP milliseconds. The default tone length is 200ms.

.TP
.B \-d \fItime\fP
Wait for \fItime\fP milliseconds between each repetition of the next tone.
The default delay between repetitions is 100ms.

.TP
.B \-D \fItime\fP
Wait for \fItime\fP milliseconds between each repetition of the next tone,
and after the last repetition as well. The default is to not delay after the
last repetition.

.TP
.B \-n
Play a tone as previously specified and reset the frequency, length, delay,
and reptitions to their default values.
.sp
A final \fB\-n\fP should be omitted, as the utility will play the currently
specified tone after all arguments have been processed.

.SH DEVICES
The \fBbeep\fP utility expects the ToaruOS PC speaker device file to be available at \fB/dev/spkr\fP.
The utility will not function on systems without a PC speaker.

.PP
Maybe one day this utility will be augmented with a PCM generator.

.SH FREQUENCY TABLE
This table was provided with the Linux \fBbeep\fP and should be equally useful to users of this \fBbeep\fP:

.TP
C
261.6
.TP
C#
277.2
.TP
D
293.7
.TP
D#
311.1
.TP
E
329.6
.TP
F
349.2
.TP
F#
370.0
.TP
G
392.0
.TP
G#
415.3
.TP
A
440.0
.TP
A#
466.2
.TP
B
493.9
.TP
C
523.2

.SH COMPATIBILITY
This \fBbeep\fP's argument format is generally compatible with the one commonly
found in Linux, though it lacks the \fB\-s\fP and \fB\-c\fP flags and support for
long options. Snippets written for that \fBbeep\fP usually work with this one, so
long as they only use the short flags.
