.TH BIM 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
bim \- The Standard ToaruOS Text Editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbim\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILE\fP]
.br
\fBbim\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \-\- \-

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBBim\fP is a modal code editor inspired by a similar\-sounding one.
\fBBim\fP has syntax highlighting, autocomplete, tabs, splits, and is scriptable with
.IR kuroko (1).

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-R
Open the initial buffer read\-only.

.TP
.B \-O \fIoptions\fP
Set various options. The following list is incomplete.

.RS
.TP
.B noaltscreen
Disables use of the alternative screen buffer.

.TP
.B nounicode
Disables Unicode output in most contexts.

.TP
.B nosyntax
Disable the automatic configuration of syntax highlighting when loading files.

.TP
.B nohistory
Disable the undo/redo stack.

.TP
.B nomouse
Disable support for mouse input.

.TP
.B cansgrmouse
Enable support for SGR mouse modes.

.RE

.TP
.B \-c, \-C
Print a file, with syntax highlighting, to \fBstdout\fP. With \fB\-C\fP, line numbers are printed. With \fB\-c\fP, they are not.

.TP
.B \-u \fIbimrcpath\fP
Override the default configuration file (normally \fB\(ti/.bim3rc\fP) with \fIbimrcpath\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help text.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information for the editor, as well as a list of available syntax and theme plugins.

.TP
.B \-\-dump\-mappings
Print a Markdown listing of key bindings.

.TP
.B \-\-dump\-commands
Print a Markdown listing of available commands and their descriptions.

.TP
.B \-\-dump-config
This is a legacy option that prints an old\-format \fBbimrc\fP describing key bindings.

.TP
.B \-\-html \fIfile\fP
Read and highlight \fIfile\fP and print the result as an HTML document.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kuroko (1)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBBim\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>

