.TH CAL 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBcal\fP \- print a calendar

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcal\fP [\fB\-h\fP] [[\fImonth\fP] \fIyear\fP]
.br
\fBcal\fP [\fB\-h\fP] \fB\-3\fP [\fImonth\fP \fIyear\fP]
.br
\fBcal\fP [\fB\-h\fP] [\fB\-A\fP \fIafter\fP] [\fB\-B\fP \fIbefore\fP] [\fB\-O\fP] [\fImonth\fP \fIyear\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays a textual calendar of the current month, or another month, of the Gregorian calendar.
The current day is highlighted through an escape sequence to invert it.
.PP
With no arguments, the current month is displayed.
With only a \fIyear\fP argument, a full 12 month calendar for that year is displayed.
If a \fImonth\fP and \fIyear\fP are given, that month of that year will be displayed.

.SS Options
.TP
.B \-h
Disable the highlighting of today.

.TP
.B \-3
Display three months (one before and one after the requested month).
Equivalent to \fB\-A 1 \-B 1\fP.

.TP
.B \-A \fIafter\fP
Display a number of months \fIafter\fP the selected month.

.TP
.B \-B \fIbefore\fP
Display a number of months \fIbefore\fP the selected month.

.TP
.B \-O
Display all requested months in one row, rather than breaking them up into groups of three.

.TP
.I month
Numeric month to display: 1\-12

.TP
.I year
Numeric year to display: 1970\-2099

.SH CAVEATS
Other implementations of this utility support displaying the date of certain religious
holidays, but this one does not.
.PP
The \fB\-O\fP option is specific to ToaruOS and not found in other implementations.
.PP
Using the \fB\-O\fP option with \fB\-A\fP or \fB\-B\fP values that produce too many months
to display within the screen width will probably not look very good.
.PP
Specifying a date that would result in the \fB\-3\fP, \fB\-A\fP, or \fB\-B\fP options
trying to display a date that is out of range for the system's
.IR strftime (3)
and
.IR mktime (3)
routines may result in unexpected behavior.
The tool only safeguards the initial requested date against known limitations.

.SH STANDARDS
\fBcal\fP is specified in the XSI extensions to POSIX and is supposed to support historical
dates that use the Julian calendar; this implementation does not support historic dates, or
dates particlarly far in the future, though this is mostly due to limitations in the libc
.IR strftime (3)
and
.IR mktime (3)
routines.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR date (1)
