.TH CHMOD 1 "May, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBchmod\fP \- Change the mode of a file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchmod\fP [\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-R\fP] \fImode\-string\fP \fIfile\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Attempts to change the mode of each \fIfile\fP argument as specified in \fImode-string\fP.
.PP
The \fImode-string\fP may be either an octal mode string or a series of "clauses", separated
by commas, describing actions to take on particular parts of the mode.
.PP
A "clause" begins with zero or more of \fBu\fP, \fBg\fP, \fBo\fP, or \fBa\fP (\fIwhos\fP), followed by
one of \fB\-\fP, \fB+\fP, or \fB=\fP (\fIactions\fP), followed by either one of \fBu\fP, \fBg\fP, or \fBo\fP
to copy permissions from those classes (as of the last processed clause, or the original permissions of
the file before \fBchmod\fP was invoked), or zero or more of \fBr\fP, \fBw\fP, \fBx\fP, \fBX\fP,
or \fBs\fP (\fIpermissions\fP).
.PP
The "\fIwhos\fP" represent \fBu\fPser, \fBg\fProup\fP, \fBo\fPther, and \fBa\fPll.
.PP
The "\fIactions\fP" represent \fBadd\fP (+), \fBsubtract\fP (\-), and \fBset\fP (=).
.PP
When a \fIwho\fP is not specified, \fBa\fPll is implied, but the current file permission mask is
applied to the bits to be modified; if a bit is set in the file permission mask, the corresponding
bit will not be added, subtracted, or set in the new file mode.
.PP
The basic "\fIpermissions\fP" represent \fBr\fPead, \fBw\fPrite, and e\fBx\fPecute.
.PP
The \fBX\fP permission means "execute" if the file is a directory, or if one of the execute bits was
already set before the invocation of \fBchmod\fP; otherwise, it is ignored.
.PP
The \fBs\fP permission is only meaningful if the \fBwho\fP includes \fBu\fP or \fBg\fP (or it is implied
by being empty or being \fBa\fP), and modifies the \fBsetuid\fP or \fBsetgid\fP permission, respectively.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose: Print, to standard output, a description of changes, failures, and maintained permissions.

.TP
.B \-R
Ostensibly, operate recursively.
This option is not supported at the moment; each directory will produce a diagnostic to this effect.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
All of the files were successfully modified by
.IR chmod (2)

.TP
1
An error occurred.

.TP
2
An invalid \fImode\-string\fP was specified.

.SH STANDARDS
POSIX specifies a \fB\-R\fP flag that is not supported in this implementation as of writing.

.SH NOTES
When using a \fImode\-string\fP that begins with a \- character, be sure to terminate the option
list with \fB\-\-\fP first.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmod (2)

