.TH CHOWN 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBchown\fP \- Change ownership of files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchown\fP [\fB\-hv\fP] [\fB\-R\fP [\fB\-H\fP | \fB\-L\fP | \fB\-P\fP]] \fIowner\fP[\fB:\fP\fIgroup\fP] \fIfile\fP...
.br
\fBchown\fP [\fB\-hv\fP] [\fB\-R\fP [\fB\-H\fP | \fB\-L\fP | \fB\-P\fP]] \fB:\fP\fIgroup\fP \fIfile\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes the ownership of each \fIfile\fP. The \fIowner\fP and \fIgroup\fP may be specified
as either numeric IDs or usernames looked up through
.IR getpwnam (3).

.SS Options
.TP
.B \-h
For each \fIfile\fP argument which is a symbolic link, \fBchown\fP will attempt to change the
ownership of the link itself, rather than the ownership of the target.

.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose: print each thing that has been changed.
Providing this option multiple times theoretically increases verbosity.

.TP
.B \-R
Theoretically recurse into directories and attempt to change the ownership of their contents.

.TP
.B \-H
With \fB\-R\fP, if a \fIfile\fP is a symbolic link, it is followed.

.TP
.B \-L
With \fB\-R\fP, any symbolic link that is encountered will be followed.

.TP
.B \-P
With \fB\-R\fP, no symbolic links are followed.
This is the default.
When a symbolic link is "not followed", \fBchown\fP attempts to change the ownership of the link itself.

.SH NOTES
Recursion is not currently supported due to an inability to reliably prevent cycles.
.PP
Extra verbosity is not currently supported out of laziness; ask again later.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Ownership was successfully changed on all files.
.TP
1
An error occurred.

.SH STANDARDS
POSIX.1-2024

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chown (2),
.BR lchown (2)
