.TH COMPOSITOR 1 "March, 2026"
.SH NAME
compositor \- Yutani, the Window Compositor
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcompositor [-n [-g \fP\fIWxH\fP\fB]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Yutani is the standard ToaruOS system window compositor and manager.
.PP
The compositor manages all application windows and keyboard and mouse input during a graphical session.

.TP
.B \-n \fRor\fP \-\-nested
Run a nested Yutani compositor as a Yutani application.

.TP
.B \-g \fRor\fP \-\-geometry \f(BIWxH\fP
When used with \fB-n\fP, set the size of the nested compositor window.

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS

.TP
.B Super-Shift-Z
Rotate the focused window countercockwise.

.TP
.B Super-Shift-X
Rotate the focused window clockwise.

.TP
.B Super-Shift-C
Reset the rotation of the focused window.

.TP
.B Super-Shift-V
Toggle blur-behind on the focused window. Be warned the blur-behind is very computationally expensive.

.TP
.B Super-a
Minimize the focused window to the panel.

.TP
.B Alt-F10
Maximize the focused window.

.TP
.B Alt-F4
Send the focused window a close request.

.TP
.B PrtSc
Take a screenshot. The screenshot will be written as a TGA to \fI/tmp/screenshot_%F_%H_%M_%S.tga\fP.

.TP
.B Shift+PrtSc
Take a screenshot of the focused window. The screenshot will be written as a TGA with an alpha channel to \fI/tmp/screenshot_%F_%H_%M_%S.tga\fP.

.TP
.B Super-Shift-Left
Tile the focused window to the upper left quadrant.

.TP
.B Super-Shift-Right
Tile the focused window to the upper right quadrant.

.TP
.B Super-Left
Tile the focused window to the left half of the screen.

.TP
.B Super-Right
Tile the focused window to the right half of the screen.

.TP
.B Super-Ctrl-Left
Tile the focused window to the lower left quadrant.

.TP
.B Super-Ctrl-Right
Tile the focused window to the lower right quadrant.

.TP
.B Super-Up
Tile the focused window to the top half of the screen.

.TP
.B Super-Down
Tile the focused window to the bottom half of the screen.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR libtoaru_yutani (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Yutani was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>
