.TH CRC32 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBcrc32\fP, \fBcksum\fP \- Calculate the cyclic redundancy check of a file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcrc32\fP [\fB\-d\fP] [\fB\-c\fP|\fB\-P\fP] [\fIfile\fP]...
.br
\fBcrc32\fP [\fB\-d\fP] [\fB\-p\fP \fIpolynomial\fP] [\fB\-e\fP] [\fB\-r\fP] [\fB\-R\fP] [\fB\-i\fP \fIinitial_value\fP] [\fB\-x\fP \fIfinal_xor\fP] [\fIfile\fP]...
.br
\fBcksum\fP [\fIfile\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Calculates and prints the 32-bit \fIcyclic redundancy check\fP value for each of the given files.
.PP
If no \fIfile\fP arguments are provided, standard input will be used.
If multiple \fIfile\fP arguments are provided, each check value will be printed on
a separate line alongside its associated argument.

.SH DEFAULTS
When invoked as \fBcrc32\fP, the default configuration of this utility is as follows:

.RS
- The polynomial is \fB0x04C11DB7\fP, representing exponents of 32, 26, 23, 22, 16, 12, 11, 10, 8, 7, 5, 4, 2, 1, and 0.
.br
- The input is reflected.
.br
- The output is reflected.
.br
- The initial value is \fB0xFFFFFFFF\fP.
.br
- The checksum is not extended with the length of the input.
.br
- The final value is XORed with \fB0xFFFFFFFF\fP.
.RE

.PP
When invoked as \fBcksum\fP, the utility operates as if the options \fB\-d \-P\fP were provided.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS General
These options control the display format of the output:

.TP
.B \-d
Display the output in the \fBcksum\fP decimal format, with the length and filename always included.

.SS Shortcuts
These options pick particular versions of the CRC\-32 algorithm:

.TP
.B \-c
Calculate a CRC\-32C.
.sp
This option is equivalent to \fB\-p 0x1EDC6F41\fP.

.TP
.B \-P
Calculate a POSIX CRC\-32.
.sp
This option is equivalent to \fB\-r \-R \-i 0 \-e\fP.

.PP
Shortcut options reset all customization options.
If you wish to alter the behavior from a shortcut, place customization options after the shortcut option.

.SS Customization
These options allow for the configuration of a custom CRC\-32 algorithm:

.TP
.B \-p \fIn\fP
Set the polynomial to use.
This should be the normal form, such as \fB0x04C11DB7\fP (the default), or \fB0x1EDC6F41\fP.

.TP
.B \-r
Unreflected input.
Input bytes will be read in the opposite order from how they would be in standard CRC\-32.

.TP
.B \-R
Unreflected output.
The final check value will be bit reversed from how it would normally be presented in standard CRC\-32.

.TP
.B \-i \fIn\fP
The checksum calculation begins at this value. The default is \fB0xFFFFFFFF\fP.

.TP
.B \-x \fIn\fP
The checksum calculation is XORed by this value before being displayed (and before being bit-reversed).
The default value is \fB0xFFFFFFFF\fP.

.TP
.B \-e
Extend with length.
The length of the input that has been processed will be included, read from least significant byte
to most significant byte, with bits consumed in the ordered specified by the presence or non\-presence
of the \fB\-r\fP option, applying the "smallest number of octets capable of representing this integer".

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
On success
.TP
1
If an unexpected option was provided, an input file could not be opened, or an error was
encountered while trying to read an input file.

.SH STANDARDS
When invoked as \fBcksum\fP, this utility should conform to the specification in POSIX.1\-2024.
