.TH DBG 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBdbg\fP \- Rudimentary interactive debugger.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdbg\fP \fIcommand\fP [\fIarg\fP]...
.br
\fBdbg\fP \fB\-p\fP \fIpid\fP \fIbinary\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Run an application under
.IR ptrace (2)
and allow its state to be inspected when a signal arrives.
.PP
When the \fB\-p\fP option is used, \fBdbg\fP will attempt to attach to the process identified by \fIpid\fP.
A path to the \fIbinary\fP must still be provided, which \fBdbg\fP will use to identify symbols.

.SH COMMANDS
When the debugger traps, a command prompt is displayed. The following commands are supported.

.TP
.B show regs
Display the CPU registers of the traced process.

.TP
.B show libs
Display loaded dynamic libraries by inspecting the runtime state of the \fBld.so\fP in the traced process.

.TP
.B backtrace
Print a stack trace.

.TP
.B continue
Resume the program until another signal is raised.

.TP
.B signal \fIsignum\fP
Send the signal specified by \fIsignum\fP to the traced program. Any format supported by
.IR str2sig (3)
can be supplied to this command, as well as lowercase versions of signal names.

.TP
.B step
Set the architecture\-specific single\-step debug flag in the traced process and then resume it.
This should allow one instruction to execute and then return to the debugger prompt.

.TP
.B poke \fIaddr\fP \fIbyte\fP
Load \fIbyte\fP into the address specified by \fIaddr\fP in the traced program.

.TP
.B print \fIfmt\fP \fIaddr\fP
Read a value from the traced process at \fIaddr\fP and interpret it using one of the following format options:

.RS
.TP
\fIn\fBx\fR
Read \fIn\fP bytes and display them as two hexadecimal digits.

.TP
\fIn\fBi\fR
Read \fIn\fP \fIint\fPs and display them as decimal.

.TP
\fIn\fBl\fR
Read \fIn\fP \fIlong\fPs and display them as decimal.

.TP
\fIn\fBp\fR
Read \fIn\fP \fIvoid*\fPs and display them using the usual pointer formatting.

.TP
\fIn\fBs\fR
Interpret \fIaddr\fP as the address of a string and print up to \fIn\fP characters from it.
If \fIn\fP is not specified or is set to 1, the max is 30.

.RE
.PP
Additionally, \(haD will exit the debugger, killing the tracee if it was started by the debugger.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR strace (1),
.IR ptrace (2)
