.TH ESH 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBesh\fP \- The Experimental SHell.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBesh\fP \fIscript\fP [\fIargs\fP]...
.br
\fBesh\fP \fB\-c\fP \fIcmd\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBEsh\fP is the default shell in ToaruOS until you install one that's actually good.
.PP
\fBEsh\fP is not a POSIX shell, or anything remotely resembling one.
.PP
An initial build of ToaruOS ships with \fB/bin/sh\fP symlinked to \fB/bin/esh\fP to
allow
.IR system (3)
to work correctly.
.PP
It is not recommended that users put any effort into actually using \fBEsh\fP.
For a real programming environment, use
.IR kuroko (1)
instead. For a real shell,
.IR dash (1)
is available from the package repository.

.TP
.B \-c \fIcmd\fP
Execute the shell command provided in the argument.

.SH SYNTAX
\fBEsh\fP parses its input line by line, token by token, and does not support any
complex syntactic constructs.
.PP
Conditionals and loops like \fBif\fP and \fBwhile\fP are implemnted as simple commands.
Because these commands generally only accept a single "subcommand", and not a full body
with a sequence of commands, if you wish to perform more complicated tasks within the
body (or conditional) of one of these constructs, you should use a subshell like
\fBesh \-c "cmd; cmd; cmd"\fP as the body.

.TP
.B if
Conditionally execute a command based on the result of another command.
.sp
\fBif\fP \fIcondition_command\fP... \fBthen\fP \fItrue_command\fP... [\fBelse\fP \fIfalse_command\fP...]
.sp
The \fBif\fP command will execute \fIcondition_command\fP. If the exit status is 0,
it will then execute \fItrue_command\fP. Otherwise, if a \fIfalse_command\fP was provided,
it will be executed instead.
.sp
The final return status of the \fBif\fP command is the exit
status of whichever of the \fItrue_command\fP or \fIfalse_command\fP is executed,
or 0 if the "else" branch was taken but no \fIfalse_command\fP was provided.

.TP
.B while
Conditionally execute a command in a loop, based on the result of another command.
.sp
\fBwhile\fP \fIcondition_command\fP... \fBdo\fP \fIbody_command\fP...
.sp
The \fBwhile\fP command parses its arguments to find a \fBdo\fP to determine
the boundaries of \fIcondition_command\fP and \fIbody_command\fP. It will then
repeatedly run \fIcondition_command\fP, check for a 0 return code, and then
execute \fIbody_command\fP. If \fIcondition_command\fP has a non-0 exit status,
the loop terminates.
.sp
The final return status of the \fBwhile\fP command is the exit status of the
the last \fIcondition_command\fP that was non-0.
.sp
The \fBwhile\fP command will also try to handle disruptive signals during
execution of \fIbody_command\fP.

.TP
.B not
Return the boolean inverse of the exit status of a subcommand.
.sp
\fBnot\fP \fIcondition_command\fP...
.sp
The \fBnot\fP command will execute a \fIcondition_command\fP and then return the boolean
inverse of its exit status. Eg., if the command returned non-0, \fBnot\fP will return 0,
and if the command returned 0, \fBnot\fP will return 1.

.TP
.B export\-cmd
.sp
\fBexport\-cmd\fP \fIvar\fP \fIcommand\fP...
.sp
Runs \fIcommand\fP with its standard output redirected to a pipe, and reads the pipe
to store the command's output in $\fIvar\fP. As of writing, this command only collects
up to 1023 bytes to place in the variable, and will then stop reading, but will still
wait for \fIcommand\fP to finish, which is probably not going to end well.

.SH CONFIGURATION
As terrible as \fBEsh\fP may be, it does have some special features.
.SS Interactive Line Editing
\fBEsh\fP uses
.IR rline (3)
for interactive line editing, which provides some basic syntax highlighting and
tab completion.

.SS Prompt
The prompt is split into a \fB$PS1_LEFT\fP and \fB$PS1_RIGHT\fP, both of which
support various escape sequences:

.TP
.B \e[
Disables calculation of display width until a matching \fB\e]\fP.
Use these sequences to wrap terminal escapes and other content which will not
move the cursor.

.TP
.B \e\f(BIOOO\fP
Where \fIOOO\fP is up to three octal digits, emits the byte with that value.

.TP
.B \ee
Emits an escape byte (equivalent to \fB\e033\fP).

.TP
.B \ed
Emits the date, as generated with \fBstrftime\fP using the format \fB%m/%d\fP.

.TP
.B \et
Emits the time, as generated with \fBstrftime\fP using the format \fB%H:%M:%S\fP.

.TP
.B \eh
Emits the system hostname.

.TP
.B \eu
Emits the current user's name.

.TP
.B \ew
Emits the current working directory.
If this directory is within \fB$HOME\fP, then the part of it equivalent to \fB$HOME\fP
will be replaced with a single \(ti character.

.TP
.B \e$
Emits either a \fB$\fP for regular users or \fB#\fP if the current user is \fBroot\fP.

.TP
.B \eU
Emits a terminal escape sequence appropriate for coloring the symbol produced by \fB\e$\fP
in either a green or red shade.
This escape is automatically processed as if it were inside of a \fB\e[\fP...\fB\e]\fP pair.

.TP
.B \er
If the exit status of the previous command was non-zero, this will emit its decimal
representation followed by a space.

.PP
If any other character follows a \e then the \e will result in a literal \e character.
.PP
As of writing, the secondary promppt ("\fBPS2\fP") can not be configured.

.SS Syntax Highlighting
The colorscheme used for highlighting can be configured with the \fB$RLINE_THEME\fP
environment variable.
Syntax highlighting is enabled by default, but can be disabled:

.TP
.B set \-o no\-syntax\-color
Disables syntax highlighting. Re\-enable with \fBsyntax\-color\fP.

.SS Tab Completion
The \fBset\fP command can be used to enable some special features during tab
completion:

.TP
.B set \-o complete\-hints
Some completions will display hints next to them, such as indicating builtin
commands, or the sections of manual pages.
Disable with \fBno\-complete\-hints\fP.

.TP
.B set \-o complete\-color
Some completions will be shown in color to indicate special properties, such as
directories being shown in blue.
Disable with \fBno\-complete\-color\fP.

.SS Shell RC
When running interactively, \fBEsh\fP will automatically source the file
\fB~/.eshrc\fP, if available, on startup.
.PP
For users of the ToaruOS live environment, the \fBlocal\fP user already has
such a file with some configuration in place.

.SH NOTES
If you are unfortunate enough to need to write a complex shell script that works
with a clean installation of ToaruOS, be sure to use \fB/bin/esh\fP in the hash\-bang
and not \fB/bin/sh\fP as users are encouraged to replace that symlink with one
pointing to a real shell as soon as they have one.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kuroko (1)

