.TH FETCH 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBfetch\fP \- download files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfetch\fP [\fB\-hOvmpf\fP] [\fB\-c\fP \fIcookies\fP] [\fB\-o\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB\-u\fP \fIfile\fP]
[\fB\-s\fP \fIspeed\fP] [\fB\-L\fP \fIlabel\fP] \fIURL\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfetch\fP utility downloads files over HTTP.
.PP
By default, \fBfetch\fP will still download the response bodies of error
pages. To supress this behavior, use the \fB\-f\fP option.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-h
Show headers set by the server.

.TP
.B \-O
Save the file to a filename based on the last element of the path in the URL.

.TP
.B \-v
Show progress of the download. If the server provided a content size, a progress
bar will also be displayed.

.TP
.B \-m
Print machine readable output. In addition to any progress display from \-v,
this option will output a line containing the current download size, a space,
and then the total download size (which may be unset), and finally print the
string "done" when the download has completed, to standard output. This can
be read to display a graphical progress bar.

.TP
.B \-p
Prompt for a password to be placed in the body of an upload as a form data
field called "password". You probably don't want this.
This does \fInot\fP set an authentication header.

.TP
.B \-f
Fail early if the status code in the respons is not 200.

.TP
.B \-c \fIcookies\fP
Set the \fIcookies\fP to be sent with the request.

.TP
.B \-o \fIfile\fP
Write the output to a given \fIfile\fP instead of standard output.

.TP
.B \-u \fIfile\fP
Upload the contents of \fIfile\fP as a form value named "file".
You probably don't want this.

.TP
.B \-s \fIspeed\fP
Sleeps for \fIspeed\fP ms between sending blocks of 1024 bytes when uploading
a file with the \fB\-u\fP option.

.TP
.B \-L \fIlabel\fP
When combined with \fB\-v\fP, prefix the download progress with the given label.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
22
The \fB\-f\fP option was specified and the response from the server was not 200.
This exit status value is taken from Curl for compatibility.

.TP
1
Some other error occurred.

.TP
0
Download completed successfully.

.SH NOTES
This utility does not support TLS connections. An alternative version of this
utility, called \fBfetch\-tls\fP, may be available from the package repository,
which does support TLS. Options supported by that utility may differ from this
one.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fetch\-tls (1)
