.TH FILE-BROWSER 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBfile\-browser\fP \- graphical file manager and desktop provider

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfile\-browser\fP [\fB\-\-wallpaper\fP|\fB\-\-picker\fP] [\fIdirectory\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBFile Browser\fP application presents a basic graphical file manager.
The application will default to displaying the current working directory when launched,
unless another \fIdirectory\fP is provided.
.PP
The two long options provide alternative user experiences for the application:

.TP
.B \-\-wallpaper
The application will attempt to acquire the "bottom" window slot in the compositor.
No decorations, menu bars, toolbars, or status bars will be displayed.
The view will default to "Icons" mode, icons will be aligned to the left rather than
in rows, and the desktop wallpaper, as configured in \fB~/.wallpaper.conf\fP (and
defaulting to \fB/usr/share/wallpaper.jpg\fP otherwise), will be rendered behind
the icons. "Launcher" files will be specially rendered based on their contents,
and directories will be opened in new windows instead of navigated when opened.
.sp
Normally, the application is started in this mode by the user's session manager
upon login to a graphical session, and manually opening the application in this
mode is not recommended.
.sp
An instance of the application that has been started in this mode may be sent
the signal \fBSIGUSR1\fP to request that it reacquire its position in the bottom
window slot. It may be sent \fBSIGUSR2\fP to request that it reload the wallpaper,
reading the configuration file again.

.TP
.B \-\-picker
The application will launch with the window title "Open File", display no
menu bar, and default to the "List" view mode. Opening any file(s) other than
a directory will cause the application to print the full path to the file(s)
to standard output and then exit.

.SH SIGNALS
Any instance of this application may be sent \fBSIGURG\fP to request that it
reload the directory it is currently displaying.
.PP
The \fB\-\-wallpaper\fP mode may also be sent \fBSIGUSR1\fP or \fBSIGUSR2\fP
as described above.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ls (1)
.BR panel (1)
