.TH GETTY 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBgetty\fP \- run terminal session over serial

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgetty\fP [\fB\-a\fP \fIuser\fP] [\fIserial_port\fP [\fIspeed\fP] [\fIterm\fP]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgetty\fP establishes terminal login sessions on serial ports. The first non\-option
argument will be treated as the name of a serial port to use; otherwise, \fBgetty\fP
will attempt to use \fB/dev/ttyS0\fP by default. If the next argument starts with a
decimal digit (and is less than 30 characters long), it will be interpreted as the speed
of the serial port, which will be configured with
.IR stty (1).
If there is an additional argument, it will be used to set the \fBTERM\fP environment
variable for the session.
.PP
\fBgetty\fP will attempt to open the requested serial port, become a session leader,
redirect each of standard input, standard output, and standard error to the serial port,
claim itself as the controlling session for the serial port's TTY, and establish
a new process group (job). It will then run \fBstty sane\fP, apply the configured speed,
set the \fBTERM\fP variable as requested, attempt to query the size of the terminal
with \fBttysize \-q\fP, and then finally run
.IR login (1).
.PP
If the \fB\-a\fPoption is specified, \fBlogin\fP will be called as "\fBlogin \-f\fP \fIuser\fP".

.SH NOTES
Only root may run \fBgetty\fP. Only root is likely to be able to open the serial ports or
successfully use
.IR login (1)
anyway.
.PP
As \fBgetty\fP runs
.IR login (1)
and not
.IR login\-loop (1),
it will terminate after one user session.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR stty (1),
.BR ttysize (1),
.BR netty (1)
