.TH GLOGIN-PROVIDER 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBglogin\-provider\fP \- display a graphical login screen

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBglogin\-provider\fP is called by
.IR glogin (1)
to present a graphical login screen.
The application must be run by root.

.SH PROTOCOL
The application will report that it has started by printing "Hello" followed
by a line feed to standard output. When a user has entered their username and
password and confirmed them by pressing "Enter", the application will report
them to standard output as follows:

    USER \fIuser\fP
    PASS \fIpassword\fP
    AUTH

The application will then wait for \fBglogin\fP to reply with either \fBFAIL\fP,
in which case the login prompt will be displayed again with an error message
indicating the user has failed to authenticate, or \fBSUCC\fP, in which case
the application will exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The display of the graphical login screen is configurable through
\fB/etc/glogin.conf\fP. This INI\-style configuration file should have any
of the following keys to configure the appearance of the login screen:

.SS [style]

.TP
.B box_width \fR(int)\fP
The width of the box in which the username and password inputs are shown
(hereinafter, we will refer to this as the "login box").
The default is \fI272\fP.

.TP
.B box_height \fR(int)\fP
The height of the login box.
The default is \fI104\fP.

.TP
.B box_roundness \fR(int)\fP
The radius of the corners of the login box.
The default is \fI8\fP.

.TP
.B center_box_x \fR(0 or 1)\fP
Whether to center the login box horizontally, or use values specified
for \fBbox_left\fP and \fBbox_right\fP.
The default is \fI1\fP.

.TP
.B box_left \fR(int)\fP
How far from the left of the screen to show the login box, if
\fBcenter_box_x\fP was set to 0. If \fBbox_left\fP is set to -1,
then \fBbox_right\fP will be used instead.
The default is \fI-1\fP.

.TP
.B box_right \fR(int)\fP
How far from the right of the screen to show the login box, if
\fBcenter_box_x\fP was set to 0 and \fBbox_left\fP was set to -1.
The default is \fI-1\fP.

.TP
.B center_box_y \fR(0 or 1)\fP
Whether to center the login box vertically, or use values specified
for \fBbox_top\fP and \fBbox_bottom\fP. When enabled, the login box
is not actually centered vertically, but its top edge is placed
8 pixels below the center of the screen.
The default is \fI1\fP.

.TP
.B box_top \fR(int)\fP
How far from the top of the screen to show the login box, if
\fBcenter_box_y\fP was set to 0. If \fBbox_top\fP is set to -1,
then \fBbox_bottom\fP will be used instead.
The default is \fI-1\fP.

.TP
.B box_bottom \fR(int)\fP
How far from the bottom of the screen to show the login box, if
\fBcenter_box_y\fP was set to 0 and \fBbox_top\fP was set to -1.
The default is \fI-1\fP.

.TP
.B box_color_r, box_color_g, box_color_b, box_color_a \fR(int)\fP
These four options describe the color of the login box.
The defaults are all \fI0\fP for \fBr, g, b\fP and \fI127\fP for \fBa\fP.
This option may be replaced with a single "\fBbox_color\fP" option
in the future.

.TP
.B logo_padding \fR(int)\fP
The vertical distance between the center of the display and the center
of the logo. A larger value places the logo higher on the display.
A negative value places the logo further down on the screen, potentially
below the login box.
The default is \fI100\fP.

.SS [image]

.TP
.B wallpaper \fR(string)\fP
A path to an image, loadable by
.IR load_sprite (3),
to display as the background. The image will be blurred with a
three\-pass box blur of size 20. This may be configurable in
the future. The default wallpaper is \fI/usr/share/wallpaper.jpg\fP.

.TP
.B logo \fR(string)\fP
A path to an image, loadable by
.IR load_sprite (3),
to display as the system logo. The default is \fI/usr/share/logo_login.png\fP.

.SH RATIONALE
I don't remember why \fBglogin\-provider\fP is this configurable.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR glogin (1)
