.TH GREP 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
grep \- Search for patterns in files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgrep\fP  [\fIOPTION\fP] \fIPATTERN\fP [\fIFILE\fP...]
.PP
\fBfgrep\fP [\fIOPTION\fP] \fISTRING\fP [\fIFILE\fP...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Search for \fIPATTERN\fP in each file, or the standard input.
.PP
This \fIgrep\fP has a bizarre, non-standard, and rather broken
regex engine and probably doesn't do what you want for anything
more complex than a simple matching pattern. It is not at all
POSIX\-compliant.
.TP
.B \-c
Instead of printing matches, print counts of matched lines.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore case in input and pattern.
.TP
.B \-l
Instead of printing matches, print the names of files that match.
This takes precedence over most other options.
.TP
.B \-n
Prefix each printed match with the line number it appeared on.
.TP
.B \-o
Print only the matching parts of a line, separating each match
with a line feed.
.TP
.B \-q
Exit immediately with a \fB0\fP exit code when a match (or, with \fB\-v\fP,
a non-match) is found, without printing any matches.
.TP
.B \-v
Invert matching: instead of printing lines that match the pattern,
prints lines that do not match the pattern.
.TP
.B \-x
Require that \fIPATTERN\fP match the whole line to count as a match.
.TP
.B \-F
Treat \fIPATTERN\fP as a fixed string. This is the default mode when
invoked as \fIfgrep\fP.
.TP
.B \-A \fIn\fP
Print up to \fIn\fP lines of context after a match.
Groups of matches will be separated by "\-\-", unless they merge.
.TP
.B \-B \fIn\fP
Print up to \fIn\fP lines of context before a match.
Groups of matches will be separated by "\-\-", unless they merge.
.TP
.B \-C \fIn\fP
Combined the \fB\-A\fP and \fB\-B\fP options to print up to \fIn\fP
lines of context both before and after a match. You may also specify
\fB\-A\fP and \fB\-B\fP separately to get different context on
either side of a match. As with the other options,
groups of matches will be separated by "\-\-", unless they merge.
.TP
.B \-\-color
Set the mode for displaying matches using coloring. With no additional
option, this enables color when the output is a tty and the matching part
of a line will be highlighted in red. This option can be configured as
follows:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-color=auto
Enable color when the output is a TTY. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-\-color=never
Disable color even if the output is a TTY.
.TP
.B \-\-color=always
Always enable color, even if the output is not a TTY.
.RE

.SH PATTERNS
The pattern engine here was originally built for
.IR bim (1)
and was then adapted to be more like the one expected of a \fIgrep\fP.
.PP
The following subpatterns are supported to some extent:
.TP
.B [abc]
Matches one of a set of characters.
.TP
.B [^abc]
Matches one character not from the given set.
.TP
.B (abc)
Match a group. This does nothing useful, as groups can not be repeated in this
implementaiton.
.TP
.B .
Match any single character.
.TP
.B ^
Match the start of a line.
.TP
.B $
Match the end of a line.
.PP
Single characters and bracket expressions can be repeated as follows:
.TP
.B *
Match any number of occurances.
.TP
.B \e?
Match zero or one time.
.TP
.B \e+
Match at least one occurance.

.SH BUGS
 \- The regex engine is not Unicode-aware.
 \- Repetitions are not available on groups.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bim (1)

.SH AUTHOR
This \fIgrep\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>

