.TH HEXIFY 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBhexify\fP \- convert files to and from hexadecimal

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhexify\fP [\fB\-w\fP \fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-d\fP] [\fIfile\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBhexify\fP utility converts files to and from a hexadecimal plain text format.
.PP
This utility is inspired by, but not necessarily compatible with, the \fBxxd\fP utility,
found on some other platforms.
.PP
If no \fIfile\fP argument is provided, the standard input will be used.
At most one \fIfile\fP argument is accepted.
.PP
Supported options:

.TP
.B \-w \fIwidth\fP
Specify the width, in bytes (pairs of hexadecimal digits), to display per line when
converting to the hexadecimal format.
The last such option will be honored.
The minimum is 1 and the maximum is arbitrarily 256.
The default is \fI16\fP.
Specifying 0 will use the default value, overriding a previously set value.

.TP
.B \-d
Convert from the normal output format of this utility back to binary.
When a malformed input is detected, a diagnostic message will be
printed to standard error.
Some malformed inputs will result in the utility halting, while
others will be ignored after the diagnostic message is printed.

.SH FORMAT
Each line in the hexadecimal output format consists of an offset of at least 8
hexadecial digits (0-padded), a colon, a space, up to \fIwidth\fP pairs of
hexadecimal digits, grouped into sets of 4 digits and separated by spaces, a suitable
amount of alignment space for lines with fewer than \fIwidth\fP pairs of
hexadecimal digits, and then a listing of the original bytes appearing on
that line with non\-printable characters replaced with '.'.
.PP
For example:

    echo "hello" | hexify

Will produce:

    00000000: 6865 6c6c 6f0a                           hello.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
The input was successfully read and converted.
.TP
1
An error occurred while trying to read the input.
