.TH IFCONFIG 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBifconfig\fP \- view and configure network interfaces and routing

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBifconfig\fP
.br
\fBifconfig\fP \fIinterface\fP
.br
\fBifconfig\fP \fIinterface\fP [\fItype\fP] \fIaddress\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBifconfig\fP utility allows the configuration of a network device to be viewed
and possibly updated.
.PP
With no argument, information about all available interfaces is printed. With only
an \fIinterface\fP, information about that interface is printed. The other forms
of the command attempt to set a particular address. The options for \fItype\fP are:

.TP
.B inet
The main IPv4 address of the interface. If no \fItype\fP is supplied, this is the default.

.TP
.B gateway \fRor\fP gw
The IPv4 gateway address. This functionality serves as a stopgap for a lack of route
management tools or a separate route table in the kernel.

.TP
.B netmask
The netmask of the interface.

.SH NOTES
The utility is capable of accepting multiple addresses in one invocation, for example:

	ifconfig enp0s2 192.168.0.2 gw 192.168.0.1 netmask 255.255.255.0

Each address will be processed in sequence. If an error is encountered while trying
to set an address, the utility will exit and later addresses will not be processed.
To avoid mistakes with potentially unknown address types, only one bare address is
accepted in a command.

.SH BUGS
Commands like "up" and "down" are not supported. The utility makes very little effort
to validate addresses. While the utility may be able to print an IPv6 address, if one
is reported by an interface, it has no support for setting them, and no existing
network interface drivers support IPv6 addresses as of writing, nor does the IP stack.
.PP
As of writing there is no interface to set the MTU, and no way to view the configured
gateway despite being able to set it.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dhclient (1),
.BR ioctl (2)
