.TH JULIA 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBjulia\fp, \fBmandelbrot\fP \- display fractals

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjulia\fP      [\fB\-i\fP \fIiterations\fP] [\fB\-x\fP \fIx\fP] [\fB\-y\fP \fIy\fP] [\fB\-r\fP \fIrotations\fP] [\fB\-W\fP \fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-H\fP \fIheight\fP] [\fB\-c\fP \fIcreal\fP] [\fB\-C\fP \fIcimag\fP]
.br
\fBmandelbrot\fP [\fB\-i\fP \fIiterations\fP] [\fB\-x\fP \fIx\fP] [\fB\-y\fP \fIy\fP] [\fB\-r\fP \fIrotations\fP] [\fB\-W\fP \fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-H\fP \fIheight\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBjulia\fP and \fBmandelbrot\fP utilities display their respective fractals in a window.
.PP
Several options are provided to tune the parameters of the fractal:

.TP
.B \-o \fIiterations\fP \fRor\fP \-\-iterations \fIiterations\fP
Set the number of \fIiterations\fP after which calculation for a pixel will terminate. The default is 1000.

.TP
.B \-x \fIx\fP \fRor\fP \-\-center\-x  \fIx\fP
Set the horizontal panning for viewing the fractal.
A negative value pans the viewport left; a positive value pans the viewport right.

.TP
.B \-y \fIy\fP \fRor\fP \-\-center\-y  \fIy\fP
Set the vertical panning for viewing the fractal.
A negative value pans the viewport down; a positive value pans the viewport up.

.TP
.B \-c \fIcreal\fP \fRor\fP \-\-creal \fIcreal\fP
Set the real component of \fBc\fP when displaying a Julia fractal.

.TP
.B \-C \fIcimag\fP \fRor\fP \-\-cimag \fIcimag\fP
Set the imaginary component of \fBc\fP when displaying a Julia fractal.

.TP
.B \-r \fIrotation\fP \fRor\fP \-\-rotate \fIrotation\fP
Rotate the hue of the palette used to render the fractal.

.TP
.B \-w \fIwidth\fP \fRor\fP \-\-width \fIwidth\fP
Set the initial width of the window.

.TP
.B \-h \fIheight\fP \fRor\fP \-\-height \fIheight\fP
Set the initial height of the window.

.SH KEYBOARD CONTROLS
Two modes of operation are available. Only \fBExplore\fP mode is relevant when
viewing a Mandelbrot set, and the \fBmandelbrot\fP utility will start in that
mode. The \fBControl\fP mode is only relevant when viewing Julia fractals,
and the \fBjulia\fP utility starts in that mode but may be switched to the
Explore mode. Pressing \fBe\fP switches between the two modes, regardless
of which utility was invoked. Pressing \fBp\fP cycles between available color
palettes. Pressing \fBq\fP will quit the utility.
.PP
In both modes, \fBShift\fP and \fBCtrl\fP modifiers will affect the amount
by which parameters are changed when keys are pressed:
.TP
.B Ctrl
Applies a 5x multiple.
.TP
.B Shift
Applies a 10x multiple.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Shift
Applies a 50x multiple.

.SS Control Mode
When in \fBControl\fP mode, the arrow keys modify the real and imaginary values
of the \fBc\fP component of a Julia fractal. Left and right control the real
component while up and down control the imaginary component.

.SS Explore Mode
When in \fBExplore\fP mode, the arrow keys control the panning of the viewport.
Additionally, \fBPage Up\fP and \fBPage Down\fP allow the viewport to be zoomed
in and out.

.SH NOTES
These utilities operate on \fBdouble\fPs and their resolution is limited if
zoomed in too far.

.SH HISTORY
The \fBjulia\fP utility is the oldest application in ToaruOS. It was the first
userspace application written for the operating system in April of 2011. Originally,
it was going to a tileset demo \- which did appear later as \fBgame\fP.
.PP
It was ported to the pre\-Yutani windowing environment in February of 2012 as \fBjulia\-win\fP.
It was then ported to Yutani in April of 2014.
.PP
Keyboard interactions, multiple palettes, and the descriptive text label shown
in the bottom left were all added in September of 2021.
.PP
The Mandelbrot set viewer and the Explore mode were added in 2023.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR compositor (1)
