.TH KUROKO 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
Kuroko \- A Dynamic, Interpreted Language

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkuroko\fP [ \fB\-d\fP ] [ \fB\-g\fP ] [ \fB\-G\fP ] [ \fB\-i\fP ] [ \fB\-m\fP \fIMODULE\fP ]
       [ \fB\-r\fP ] [ \fB\-R\fP \fIDEPTH\fP ] [ \fB\-t\fP ] [ \fB\-C\fP \fIFILE\fP ]
       [ \fB\-M\fP ] [ \fB\-S\fP ] [ \fB\-\-help\fP ] [ \fB\-\-version\fP ]
       [ \fISCRIPT\fP ] [ \fIARGS\fP... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKuroko\fP is a dynamic, byte\-code compiled, interpreted programming language.
It is based on, and heavily compatible with, another popular dynamic, byte\-code
compiled, interpreted programming language named after a comedy troupe and reptile.

.PP
When started with no arguments, \fIkuroko\fP enters a REPL.

.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
The following flags control the behavior of the interpreter:

.TP
.B \-c \fICMD\fP
Interpret \fICMD\fP as program code.

.TP
.B \-d
Print debug output from the compiler. Bytecode disassembly for each function is printed after
it is successfully compiled.

.TP
.B \-g
Run the garbage collector after every allocation. This option is provided mostly for debugging
of the interpreter itself.

.TP
.B \-G
Print a report each time the garbage collector is run. This can be useful for debugging
unexpected memory usage in programs.

.TP
.B \-i
After a script is run from an \fB\-c\fP, \fB\-m\fP, or \fIFILE\fP option, run the REP.

.TP
.B \-m \fIMODULE\fP
Run a module as a program. Generally, this means looking for a \fB__main__.krk\fP in a package,
or otherwise importing \fIMODULE\fP with \fB__name__ = '__main__'\fP.

.TP
.B \-r
Disable complex line editing with the \fIrline\fP(3) library. The REPL will instead
use a basic \fBfgets\fP loop to read input lines.

.TP
.B \-R \fIDEPTH\fP
Set the maximum recursion depth to \fIDEPTH\fP.

.TP
.B \-t
Trace the VM. A disassembly is printed for each executed instruction. This tends
to be very slow.

.TP
.B \-C \fIFILE\fP
Compile \fIFILE\fP but do not execute it. This can be used to check if a file is
syntactically valid, or combined with \fB\-d\fP to just see bytecode.

.TP
.B \-M
Print the default module import paths (\fBkuroko.module_paths\fP) and then exit.

.TP
.B \-S
Enable single\-step debugging. When the single\-step debugging is enabled, each
instruction will trap the interactive debugger.
.sp
The interactive debugger supports various commands such as:
.RS

.TP
.B c \fRor\fP continue
Continue execution until the next breakpoint.

.TP
.B s \fRor\fP step
Execute the current instruction and then return to the debugger.

.TP
.B bt \fRor\fP backtrace
Print a backtrace.

.TP
.B q \fRor\fP quit
Exit the interpreter.

.TP
.B abort
Abort the interpreter, which may create a core dump, depending on the host OS configuration.

.TP
.B b \fRor\fP break ...
Set a breakpoint.

.TP
.B e \fRor\fP enable \fBIN\fP
Enable breakpoint \fIN\fP.

.TP
.B d \fRor\fP disable \fBIN\fP
Disable breakpoint \fIN\fP.

.TP
.B r \fRor\fP remove \fBIN\fP
Remove breakpoint \fIN\fP.

.TP
.B i \fRor\fP info ...
Display information on breakpoints.
.RE

.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help text.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.SH HOMEPAGE

https://kuroko-lang.github.io/

.SH AUTHOR

\fBKuroko\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>

.SH LICENSING

Kuroko is distributed under the MIT license.
