.TH login-loop 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBlogin\-loop\fP \- Repeatedly authenticate terminal sessions

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility can be run under a TTY to provide the traditional session experience.
.PP
It is run by
.IR terminal\-vga "(1) and " netty (1).
.PP
You can also configure the system to launch it from
.IR terminal (1)
at boot.
.PP
\fBlogin\-loop\fP will format and display \fB/etc/issue\fP and then call
.IR login (1).
It will perform these two steps repeatedly until \fBlogin\fP exits
with a status of 2, which it returns when a user enters \fBdisconnect\fP
at the username prompt.
.PP
When formatting \fB/etc/issue\fP for display, various information is available
through escape sequences:

.TP
.B \e\e
A literal backslash.

.TP
.B \en
The \fBnodename\fP value from
.IR uname (2).

.TP
.B \es
The \fBsysname\fP value from
.IR uname (2).

.TP
.B \er
The \fBrelease\fP value from
.IR uname (2).

.TP
.B \em
The \fBmachine\fP value from
.IR uname (2).

.TP
.B \ev
The \fBversion\fP value from
.IR uname (2).

.TP
.B \e4
The IPv4 address of the first available network interface. If no network interface is read, this may print "127.0.0.1" as a fallback.

.TP
.B \e4{\fIinterface\fP}
The IPv4 address of the given interface. This might also print "127.0.0.1" as a fallback.

.TP
.B \el
The
.IR ttyname (3)
of the current terminal.

.TP
.B \et
The time and timezone, as formatted with \fB"%T %Z"\fP with
.IR strftime (3).

.TP
.B \ed
The current date, as formatted with \fB"%a %b %d %Y"\fP with
.IR strftime (3).

.TP
.B \ee{\fIcolor\fP}
An escape sequence to change the \fIcolor\fP of the output. Available colors are:

  \- black
  \- blue
  \- bold
  \- brown
  \- cyan
  \- darkgray
  \- gray
  \- green
  \- lightblue
  \- lightcyan
  \- lightgray
  \- lightgreen
  \- lightmagenta
  \- lightred
  \- magenta
  \- red
  \- reset
  \- reverse
  \- yellow

.PP
Additionally, if a line ends with a \e, the following line feed will be ignored.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR uname (2),
.BR ttyname (3)
