.TH LS 1 "July, 2026"

.SH NAME
ls \- list directory contents

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBls\fP [\fB\-a\fP|\fB\-A\fP] [\fB\-f\fP] [\fB\-F\fP|\fB\-p\fP] [\fB\-h\fP]
[\fB\-i\fP] [\fB\-k\fP] [\fB\-s\fP] [\fB\-l\fP|\fB\-x\fP|\fB\-C\fP|\fB\-1\fP] [\fIpath\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
List information about the files in a directory, sorted by name.

.SS Options

.TP
.BR \-a " or " \-\-all
Show hidden files (ones starting with .)

.TP
.BR \-A " or " \-\-almost\-all
Show hidden files, but not '.' or '..'.

.TP
.B \-f
Display entries in their original order as returned from the file system, instead of sorting them.

.TP
.BR \-F " or " \-\-classify
Print a symbol next to file names to identify directories (/), FIFOs (|), sockets (=),
executables (*), and symbolic links (@).

.TP
.BR \-h " or " \-\-human\-readable
When printing file sizes, use human-readable values like \fB2M\fP.
Also applies to the block sizes from the \fB\-s\fP option.

.TP
.BR \-i " or " \-\-inode
Display the serial number of each file before its name.

.TP
.BR \-k " or " \-\-kibibytes
Does nothing (block sizes are always 1024 bytes).
Included for compatibility.

.TP
.B \-l
Format each file on one line, with details.

.TP
.B \-p
Display a '/' after the name of a directory.

.TP
.BR \-s " or " \-\-size
Display the block size, in units of 1024 bytes, before each file name.
(As of writing, this number is based on \fBst_size\fP, rather than an
actual block count reported by the file system.)

.TP
.B \-x
Format output into lines, rather than columns. This is the old default
prior to ToaruOS 2.3.

.TP
.B \-C
Format output into columns. This should match the formatting of most
other OSes, though we do not perform smart column sizing like GNU coreutils.

.TP
.B \-\-color\fR[=\fP\fIWHEN\fP\fR]\fP
Enable color.
With \fIWHEN\fP, either \fBalways\fP, \fBnever\fP, or \fBauto\fP.
\fBauto\fP is the default and will enable color when the output is a terminal.

The \fBLS_COLORS\fP environment variable can be used to configure the colors, with mostly the same format as GNU.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
Normally.
.IP 1
If a requested path could not be accessed or some other error occurred.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B LS_COLORS
A colon-separated list of \fItype\fP=\fIcolor\fP pairs.
.sp
Escape sequences are supported in both \fItype\fP and \fIcolor\fP.
.sp
The \fItype\fP may be a \fB*\fP followed by a string to match at the end of a file name, or one of the following special values:
.RS

.TP
.B lc
The sequence to print before each color, eg. "\fB\\033[\fP".

.TP
.B rc
The sequence to print after each color, eg. "\fBm\fP".

.TP
.B rs
The color string to use to reset the color, eg. "\fB0\fP".

.TP
.B ec
The full sequence printed after colored text.
This should generally be left unset, and the sequence \fBlc rs rc\fP will be used.

.TP
.B di
Directory.

.TP
.B ln
Symbolic link.
As a special case, if the \fIcolor\fP is set to "\fBtarget\fP", symbolic links will use the coloring of their targets.

.TP
.B bd
Block device.

.TP
.B cd
Character device.

.TP
.B or
Dangling symbolic link.

.TP
.B ex
Executable.

.TP
.B su
Set-user-ID file.

.TP
.B sg
Set-group-ID file.

.TP
.B pi
Pipe.

.TP
.B so
Socket.

.TP
.B no
Normal text (currently unused).

.TP
.B fi
Regular file. Used if no other specification matches.

.TP
.B mi
Missing target of a dangling symbolic link.

.TP
.B st
Directory with sticky bit set.

.TP
.B ow
Directory with \fBw+o\fP.

.TP
.B tw
Directory with \fBw+o\fP and sticky bit.
.RE

.TP
.B LS_COLSEP
Set the minimum separation between columns.
The default is 1.

.SH AUTHOR
This \fIls\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>
