.TH MORE 1 "March, 2026"
.SH NAME
more \- display text by the screenfull.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmore [-r] [-F] [-P \fIstr\fB] [--stay] [--alt] [--scroll] [\fIfile\fB...]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an implementation of the common \fBmore\fP utility, which attempts to present its
input one "screenfull" at a time by tracking where it thinks the cursor should be as it
writes to the terminal and waiting for user input when necessary.
.PP
This \fBmore\fP is not a \fBless\fP \- it does not support more advanced features like
searching.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-r
Assume that basic escape sequences \- those starting with \fI\\033[\fP and ending with a
letter \- do not contribute to the cursor position, ignore them for that purpose, and
emit them raw. This generally allows basic color output to be piped to \fImore\fP, such
as the output from
.IR roff (1)
or \fIbim \-c\fP.

.TP
.B \-F
If there is only one file, and it fits on the screen without prompting for input,
then quit after printing it.

.TP
.B \-P \fIstr\fP
Instead of showing the name of the file as the prompt, as is the default, show
the specified \fIstr\fP. This is useful if you want to use \fImore\fP as a manpage
viewer as you can use \fImore -P'man(1)'\fP to set the prompt.

.TP
.B \-\-stay
Instead of quitting when the user asks to advance while at the end of a file,
\fImore\fP will keep running, like \fIless\fP typically does. This is useful if
you are using \fimore\fP to interactively page through a file or a manual page.

.TP
.B \-\-alt
Switch to the alternate screen buffer and clear the screen on startup.

.TP
.B \-\-scroll
Disable scrollback.

.TP
.B \-\-help
Shows help text.

.SH BUGS
\- The \fB-r\fP flag treats all escape sequences as being invisible, and does not handle
ones that are not of the \fBCSI\fP form.
.PP
\- The input prompt does not handle special sequences, but as a consolation it accepts
things like capital \fB'B'\fP as equivalent to \fB'j'\fP or \fBRETURN\fP so you can use the down key,
or \fB'5'\fP as page up.
.PP
\fBmore\fP does not update the screen size if the terminal is resized.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR roff (1),
.IR bim (1)

.SH HOMEPAGE
.PP
.B ToaruOS:
https://toaruos.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This \fImore\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>.

