.TH MSK 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBmsk\fP \- package manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B msk update
.br
.B msk install \fIpackage\fP...
.br
.B msk list
.br
.B msk count
.br
.B msk \-\-version

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsk\fP is the standard package manager for ToaruOS.
.PP
As ToaruOS's default environment contains only first\-party software,
the package manager provides a way to install ports of third\-party
software from a repository.
.PP
The package repository requires \fBroot\fP to operate and should
generally be called through
.IR sudo (1).
.PP
The following commands are understood by the package manager:

.TP
.B update
Retrieve the latest package manifest file from each of the
configured remotes. This process is generally run automatically
once at boot time.

.TP
.B install \fIpackage\fP...
Download and install \fIpackage\fPs from the repository.
The package manager will automatically calculate and install
any dependencies of the requested packages.

.TP
.B list
Show a list of all known packages, including ones which
are not installed. Each package will be listed alongside
a description, and installed packages will be prefixed by
the letter \fBI\fP.

.TP
.B count
Display a count of installed and available packages. This
command exists primarily for use with
.IR sysinfo (1).

.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information about the \fBmsk\fP utility.

.SH REPOSITORIES
The primary package repository is hosted on a CDN. By default,
ToaruOS does not include any TLS support, so packages are installed
over HTTP cleartext. Both the CDN and fallback repository are
available over HTTPS, but this requires the installation of a
compatible TLS library and URL fetcher, such as \fBfetch\-tls\fP,
as well as additional user configuration.
.PP
The available packages different between architectures.

.SH SPECIAL FILES
.TP
.B /etc/msn.conf
Remote repository configuration.

.TP
.B /var/run/msk.lock
Lock file.

.TP
.B /var/msk/manifest
Cached package manifest.

.TP
.B /var/msk/installed
Information on which packages have been installed.

.SH NOTES
This version of \fBmsk\fP is scheduled for replacement with
one that uses a dedicated single\-file package format.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tar (1),
.BR fetch (1)
