.TH NM 1 "June, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBnm\fP \- print symbol information

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnm\fP
[\fB\-A\fP]
[\fB\-D\fP]
[\fB\-W\fP]
[\fB\-U\fP]
[\fB\-u\fP]
[\fB\-g\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP]
[\fB\-n\fP|\fB\-v\fP]
[\fB\-r\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP]
[\fB\-j\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIradix\fP]
[\fB\-\-quiet\fP]
[\fB\-\-size\-sort\fP]
\fIfile\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Lists the symbols in an ELF file.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-A \fRor\fP \-\-print-file\-name
Precede each output line with the name of the file.

.TP
.B \-D \fRor\fP \-\-dynamic
Print dynamic symbols (from \fBDYNSYM\fP sections).

.TP
.B \-W \fRor\fP \-\-no-weak
Skip weak symbols.

.TP
.B \-U \fRor\fP \-\-defined-only
Show only defined symbols.

.TP
.B \-u \fRor\fP \-\-undefined-only
Show only undefined symbols.

.TP
.B \-g \fRor\fP \-\-extern\-only
Show only global symbols.

.TP
.B \-p \fRor\fP \-\-no\-sort
Do not sort symbols; show them in the order they appear in the symbol tables.

.TP
.B \-r \fRor\fP \-\-reverse\-sort
Reverse the sort order.

.TP
.B \-S \fRor\fP \-\-print-size
Print the size of each symbol along with its address.

.TP
.B \-n \fRor\fP \-v \fRor\fP \-\-numeric-sort
Sort the symbols by their addresses.

.TP
.B \-P \fRor\fP \-\-portability
Use the POSIX output format.

.TP
.B \-j \fRor\fP \-\-just-symbols
Print only the symbol names.
Other options affecting output format (eg. \fB\-A\fP, \fB\-S\fP, etc.) are generally ignored.

.TP
.B \-t \fIradix\fP \fRor\fP \-\-radix=\fIradix\fP
Format numeric output with the given \fIradix\fP which must be one of \fBd\fP (decimal),
\fBo\fP (octal), or \fBx\fP (hexadecimal).

.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Do not print diagnostic messages about symbols not being present.

.TP
.B \-\-size\-sort
Sort symbols by their size.

.SH NOTES
Only 64-bit ELF binaries are supported, and information may be limited compared to other implementations.
Archive files are not supported.

.SH STANDARDS
The \fB\-A\fP, \fB\-g\fP, \fB\-P\fP, \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-u\fP, and \fB\-v\fP options are described in POSIX.1-2024.
The other options are intended to match their meanings in GNU Binutils.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readelf (1)
