.TH NOHUP 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBnohup\fP \- invoke a utility while ignoring hangups

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnohup\fP [\-\-] \fIcmd\fP [\fIargs\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnohup\fP utility will ignore \fBSIGHUP\fP and redirect any of standard input, output, and error if they point to terminals.
.PP
\- If standard input is a terminal, it is redirected to \fB/dev/null\fP.
.br
\- If standard output is a terminal, it is appended to \fBnohup.out\fP, or, failing that, \fB$HOME/nohup.out\fP.
.br
\- If standard error is a terminal, it is redirected to standard output.
.PP
Once all redirections have been set up, the utility specified by \fIcmd\fP is invoked via
.IR execvp (3).

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B HOME
If \fBnohup\fP can not open \fBnohup.out\fP for writing, it will try \fB$HOME/nohup.out\fP.

.TP
.B PATH
\fBnohup\fP will use
.IR execvp (3)
to invoke \fIcmd\fP, so \fBPATH\fP affects its behavior.

.SH EXIT STATUS
As per POSIX.1\-2024:

.TP
126
We made it to
.IR execvp (3)
and got something other than \fBENOENT\fP.

.TP
127
Some other failure, including reaching \fBexecvp\fP but getting \fBENOENT\fP.

.SH STANDARDS
This utility hopefully matches its description in POSIX.1\-2024.
.PP
The redirection of standard input is optional in the standard, and not all implementations do it.
We do it mostly because
.IR esh (1)
is not currently capable of redirecting standard input on its own, and also because
the GNU implementation does.
.PP
POSIX stresses that this utility invokes other utilities, not "commands": If you wish to run
complex pipelines, you can invoke a shell with \fBnohup\fP:

    nohup sh -c "some; complex; thing"

.SH NOTES
As signal dispositions are inherited by child processes, \fBSIGHUP\fP should remain ignored in
descendents of \fBnohup\fP until something decides otherwise.
.IR terminal (1)
and other PTY\-creating applications will generally ensure their own children restore the default
disposition of \fBSIGHUP\fP so that when \fItheir\fP terminal session ends, those children are
still killed correctly.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR terminal (1),
.BR signal (3)

.SH BUGS
Diagnostic messages printed in the case of
.IR execvp (3)
failure may be written to \fBnohup.out\fP if standard error was directed to it.
As the standard does not specify diagnostic messages for this, but allows them,
it is not entirely clear whether this is acceptable or not.

