.\" Sample manpage for nyancat, modified from the original.
.TH NYANCAT 1 "February, 2014"
.SH NAME
nyancat \- terminal-based Pop Tart Cat animation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nyancat
[ \fB\-hitn\fP ] [\-f \fIframes\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInyancat\fP is an animated, color, ANSI-text program that renders a loop of the classic Nyan Cat animation.
.PP
\fInyancat\fP makes use of various ANSI escape sequences to render color, or in the case of a VT220, simply dumps text to the screen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-intro
Show introduction / about information on startup.
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-skip\-intro
Skip the introduction in telnet mode.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-telnet
Enable telnet mode.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no\-counter
Do not display the timer.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-no\-title
Do not set the titlebar text.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-no\-clear
Do not clear the display between frames.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-delay
Delay image rendering by anywhere between 10ms and 1000ms.
.br
Default (90ms) is used if amount is out of range.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-frames
Display the requested number of frames, then quit.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-min\-rows
Crop the animation from the top.
.TP
.B \-R, \-\-max\-rows
Crop the animation from the bottom.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-min\-cols
Crop the animation from the left.
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-max\-cols
Crop the animation from the right.
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-width
Crop the animation to the given width.
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-height
Crop the animation to the given height.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.SH HOMEPAGE
.PP
.B Homepage:
http://nyancat.dakko.us/
.PP
.B Repository:
https://github.com/klange/nyancat
.SH AUTHOR
nyancat was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Jonathan McCrohan <jmccrohan@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
