.TH PANEL 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBpanel\fP \- desktop panel

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBPanel\fP is the primary element of the graphical desktop environment.
.PP
In its default configuraton, \fBPanel\fP displays an "Applications" menu,
a list of open application windows, and various other widgets.
.PP
The \fBPanel\fP is also responsible for responding to \fBAlt\-F2\fP and \fBAlt\-Tab\fP
key presses.

.SH SHORTCUTS

.TP
.B Alt\-F2
Pressing this key combination brings up a dialog in which a command can be input.
Pressing Enter will execute the command.

.TP
.B Alt\-Tab \fRor\fP Alt\-Shift\-Tab
Pressing this key combination allows the user to switch the focused window.
Available windows are displayed with dynamic thumbnails, titles, and icons.
The focus will switch when the \fBAlt\fP key is released.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Alt\-T
Launches
.IR terminal (1).

.TP
.B Ctrl\-F11
Toggles the visibility of the panel.

.SH WIDGETS
All components displayed within the panel are provided by loaded widget libraries.
As of writing, the selected widgets and their ordering are hard\-coded (see GH\-419).

.TP
.B appmenu
The "Applications" menu, from which various applications and utilities can be started.
The menu is built from \fB/etc/panel.menu\fP.

.TP
.B windowlist
Displays a list of open application windows.
Only windows which have been "advertised" by their owners are displayed, so this list
excludes certain dialog, overlay, background, and menu windows.

.TP
.B volume
Displays an icon indicating the current audio output volume.
Clicking the icon reveals a slider.
The volume can also be adjusted by scrolling the mouse wheel while this icon is hovered.

.TP
.B network
Displays an icon indicating the network connectivity status.
Clicking the icon reveals the address associated with available interfaces.

.TP
.B weather
Displays an icon indicating the current weather status, next to the temperature.
Data for this widget is sourced by the
.IR weather\-tool (1)
utility and is provided by a third\-party service.
Clicking the icon reveals a menu with further weather forecast details and other options.

.TP
.B date
Displays the current date.
Clicking the data reveals a calendar.

.TP
.B clock
Displays the current time.
Clicking the time reveals an analog clock.

.TP
.B logout
Displays a button which opens a menu providing the option to log out.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR file\-browser (1)
