.TH PSTREE 1 "March, 2026"
.SH NAME
pstree \- Display running processes as a tree.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpstree\fP [\fB\-a\fP] [\fB\-p\fP] [\fB\-g\fP] [\fB\-T\fP] [\fB\-h\fP] [\fB\-H\fP \fIpid\fP] [\fB\-C\fP \fImode\fP] [\fIpid\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays running proceses as a true, using Unicode box drawing characters.

.TP
.B \-a
Display the full command line for each process. This also limits each line to one process.

.TP
.B \-p
Show the PIDs of each process next to their names.

.TP
.B \-g
Show the process group ID of each process. If this is combined with \fB-p\fP, the PID is shown first.

.TP
.B \-T
Hide threads from the tree and combine their resource usage in the the thread group leader.

.TP
.B \-h
Hilight the current process (this instance of \fBpstree\fP) and its ancestors by making them all bold.

.TP
.B \-H \fIpid\fP
Like \fB\-h\fP, but for the given \fIpid\fP instead of the current process.

.TP
.B \-C \fImode\fP
Color processes using the given \fImode\fP. The following modes are supported:
.RS
.TP
.B age
New processes (less than 60s) are colored green.
Slightly older procesess (less than one hour) are colored yellow.
Older processes are colored red.

.TP
.B mine
Processes owned by the calling user are colored green.

.TP
.B cpu
Processes are colored based on their most recently sampled CPU usage.
Processes using greater than 100% of a CPU are colored bright red.
Processes using greater than 50% of a CPU are colored red.
Processes using greater than 5% of a CPU are colored yellow.
Processes using greater than 0.5% of a CPU are colored green.
Processes using less than that are colored blue.

.TP
.B mem
Processes are colored based on their memory usage.
Processes using more than 66.6% of memory are colored red.
Processes using more than 33.3% of memory are colored yellow.
Processes using more than 1% of memory are colored green.
Other processes are colored blue.

.RE
.PP
If a \fIpid\fP argument is given, then \fIpstree\fP will show a tree rooted in that process.
Otherwise, the tree will be rooted at \fBinit\fP (PID 1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libtoaru_procfs (3),
.BR ps (1),
.BR top (1)
.SH AUTHOR
This \fIpstree\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>
