.TH QEMU-FWCFG 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBqemu\-fwcfg\fP \- tool for getting data from QEMU's fw_cfg interface.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBqemu\-fwcfg\fP \fB\-l\fP
.br
\fBqemu\-fwcfg\fP [\fB\-n\fP] [\fB\-q\fP] \fIname\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Query data from QEMU's \fBfw_cfg\fP interface.
.PP
With the \fB\-l\fP option, the complete list of "files" advertised by the interface is
printed to the standard output in the following format:
.sp
    \fIselector\fP \fIpath/to.entry.file\fP (\fIsize\fP bytes)
.sp
For example:
.sp
    0x0029 opt/org.toaruos.gettyargs (41 bytes)
    0x002a opt/org.toaruos.initrd (415703 bytes)
    0x002b opt/org.toaruos.kernel (89008 bytes)
.sp
Otherwise, an argument is expected with the \fIname\fP of a file to read and print
to standard output.
.TP
.B \-l
List the available files.

.TP
.B \-n
Omit the line feed normally printed after printing a file.

.TP
.B \-q
Query quietly. If the requested file exists, return 0, else return 1.
If this option is provided alongside the \fB\-l\fP flag, the utility
may exit with a status of 1.

.SH DEVICE FILES
The utility will first try to access \fB/dev/port\fP to use the x86 port I/O interface
to read from \fBfw_cfg\fP. If that fails, it will alternatively look for a dedicated
\fB/dev/fwcfg\fP device file, which is provided on aarch64 targets. Either of these
device files generally requires \fBroot\fP to access. If neither of the possible
interfaces worked, an error message will be printed and the tool will exit with a
non-zero status.
