.TH ROFF 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
roff \- terrible, hacked\-together RUNOFF implementation

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroff\fP [\fB\-W\fP \fIwidth\fP] [\fB\-S\fP \fIsection\fP] [\fB\-E\fP] [\fB\-P\fP] \fIfile\fP...
.br
\fBroff\fP \fB--help\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIroff\fP is a terrible, no-good, very-bad, horrendously incomplete implementation
of the \fIRUNOFF\fP text formatter.
.PP
This \fIroff\fP was made entirely to process \fIman\fP pages like this one, and
probably won't work with ones that didn't come with ToaruOS.

.SS Options
Note that the options accepted by this \fBroff\fP are not related to options that
may be supported by other similar tools.

.TP
.B \-W \fIwidth\fP
Instead of formatting the output for the width of the terminal, as is the default,
the output will be formatted for a page width of \fIwidth\fP columns.

.TP
.B \-S \fIsection\fP
Print only the contents of \fIsection\fP.
Other output will be quietly written to \fB/dev/null\fP.
\fIsection\fP is matched in a case\-sensitive manner.
The output when using this option when used with the \fBNAME\fP section may be suitable
for piping to
.IR grep (1)
to search the short descriptions of manual pages.

.TP
.B \-E
Write error messages to the standard error, rather than the standard output.
This option is enabled by default when \fB\-S\fP is used.

.TP
.B \-P
Disable the output of escape sequences to modify the font.
All output will be plain text.

.SH BUGS
Tons.
.PP
Various macros are not quite correct. Lots of escape sequences are missing.
Tables are not properly supported.

.SH SYNTAX
This \fIroff\fP supports a hacked-together set of macros based on what was used in
.IR nyancat (1)
and
.IR less (1)
(even though we don't have that ported).

.SH MACROS
Lines starting with a \fB.\fP or, alternatively, a \fB'\fP, introduce macros.
.TP
.B .\e"
A comment. The line will be ignored.
.TP
.B .TH \fItopic\fP \fIsection\fP [\fIfooter-middle\fP] [\fIfooter-left\fP] [\fIheader-middle\fP]
Configure the header and footer of the page.
.sp
The \fItopic\fP is the name of this manual, generally the same as the filename prefix, but for
applications it is traditionally capitalized.
.sp
The \fIsection\fP is a numeric section number, 1 through 9, or an alternative string that will
be shown in its place; \fBn\fP is sometimes used by some systems.
.sp
The \fItopic\fP and \fIsection\fP are combined, with the \fItopic\fP underlined, and shown in
the upper left, upper right, and lower right of the output.
.sp
The \fIfooter-middle\fP is usually an authorship date and will be shown in the middle of the
bottom of the output, if present.
.sp
The \fIfooter-left\fP appears at the left of the bottom of the output, if present, but is
usually not included in manual pages.
.sp
The \fIheader-middle\fP, if present, overrides the descriptive name of the \fIsection\fP to
be displayed at middle of the top of the output.
.sp
If the \fIsection\fP is a numeric digit from 0 to 9, and \fIheader-middle\fP is not provided,
the section title will be displayed at the top of the output. Otherwise, \fIsection\fP itself
is displayed.
.sp
 1: General Commands Manual
 2: System Calls Manual
 3: Library Function Names
 4: Special Files
 5: File Formats
 6: Games
 7: Miscellaneous
 8: System Administration Manual
 9: Kernel Programming Manual
.TP
.B .SH \fItitle\fP
Displays a section title. Section titles are traditionally capitalized.
.TP
.B .PP
Regular paragraph break. Sets up standard indentation.
.TP
.B .IP
Indented paragraph. The paragraph is indented more. I'm pretty sure this is the same as \fB.TP\fP?
.TP
.B .TP
Tagged paragraph. The next line will be indented a bit, and then lines after it will be indented more,
I guess. These are all \fB.TP\fP paragraphs, for reference, so they're good for options and definitions.
If the first line and the second line can be placed next to each other, they will be.
.TP
.B .br
Line break. Forces a line feed.
.TP
.B .B
Bold text. The rest of the line will be bold.
.TP
.B .I
Underlined text. Technically, this is supposed to be \fIitalic\fP text, but literally everyone treats
it as underlined instead. There's no standard ROFF thing for actual italic text, which is a shame.
.TP
.B .IR
Do one word with the ita\-er, I mean, underlined font, then switch back to the regular font.
This gets used in some man pages to print the names of manpages, like \fB.IR man (1)\fP or whatever.
.TP
.B .BR
Similar to the above, except with bold instead of underlined. I don't know what you'd want to use this for.
.TP
.B .sp
Insert a vertical space.
.TP
.B .RS
Start a section that has extra indentation. This extra indentation continues until a \fB.RE\fP. This is
supposedly used for block quotes, but it seems to mostly get used for very nested explanations.
.TP
.B .RE
End a "blockquote" section. Restore the normal indentation level.
.TP
.B .nh .hy
These are ignored for compatibility, but they're supposed to toggle hyphenation.
.TP
.B .nf .fi
Between these macros, line feeds are taken literally. There's probably some other stuff
I'm supposed to be doing that I'm not, but whatever.
.TP
.B .TS .TE
These are supposed to introduce tables but just treat them the same as \fB.nf/.fi\fP.

.SH FONT SELECTION
You can use the various macros like \fB.B\fP above to select fonts, but the \fB\\f\fP escape
is a lot more flexible. You can use it to select fonts like this:
.TP
.B \efP
Reset the font to the previous one. There is only one level to the stack, so choose wisely.
.TP
.B \efR
"Roman" \- the default font.
.TP
.B \efB
Bold.
.TP
.B \efI
Supposed to be "italic", but as we all learned earlier it's actually underlined.
.TP
.B \ef(BI
Bold and italic together.

.SH OTHER ESCAPES
.TP
.B \ee
Prints a literal backslash. \e
.TP
.B \e(ha
Prints a caret. \(ha
.TP
.B \e(ti
Prints a tilde. \(ti
.TP
.B \e(aq
Prints a single quote. \(aq
.TP
.B \e(dq
Prints a double quote. \(dq
.TP
.B \e(bu
Prints a list bullet (U+2022). \(bu
.sp
Useful for making lists like this:
 \(bu Apples
 \(bu Bananas
 \(bu Oranges
.TP
.B \e"
Comment. The rest of the line will be ignored. \" If you're reading this manual's source, you can see an example of this here.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR more (1)

.SH HOMEPAGE
.PP
.B ToaruOS:
https://toaruos.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This \fIroff\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>.
