.TH SHOWDIALOG 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBshowdialog\fP \- show a graphical dialog prompt

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshowdialog\fP [\fB\-\-title\fP \fItitle\fP] [\fB\-\-icon\fP \fIicon\fP] [\fB\-\-at\fP \fIx\fP,\fIy\fP] [\fB\-\-parent\fP \fIwid\fP]
           [\fB\-\-disable\-cancel\fP] [\fB\-\-cancel\-label\fP \fIlabel\fP] [\fB\-\-okay\-label\fP \fIlabel\fP] \fIbody\fP...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Similar to
.IR about (1),
this utility presents a dialog window; however, with this utility,
the icon is displayed to the left of the text, the window is wider,
buttons for "Okay" and "Cancel" are shown and the exit status
can be checked to determine which button was pressed.
.PP
Each \fIbody\fP argument will be shown as a separate line, and the window
will be resized to be tall enough to fit them.
No text reflow will be performed, and no inline markup is supported.
Lines starting with '-' will be skipped and result in a small vertical space.
Lines beginning with '%' will be drawn in blue.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-\-title \fItitle\fP
Set the window title for the dialog.
Without this option, the default title is \fB"Dialog Prompt"\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-icon \fIicon\fP
Set the icon to be displayed.
Without this option, the default icon is \fBgeneric\fP.
The \fIicon\fP may be a path to a loadable sprite or the name of an icon
recognized by
.IR libtoaru_icon_cache (3).
If a path is used, the icon used in window advertisements for the dialog
will be the \fBgeneric\fP icon.

.TP
.B \-\-at \fIx\fP,\fIy\fP
Center the dialog box at these coordinates.
When combined with the \fB\-\-parent\fP option, the coordinates are
relative to the upper left of the parent window; to center a dialog
within a window, use half the width and height as the argument to
\fB\-\-at\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-parent \fIwid\fP
Make the dialog a child window of \fIwid\fP.
With the \fB\-\-at\fP option, the dialog box will be centered at the
upper left corner of the parent window, which is probably not what
you want.

.TP
.B \-\-disable\-cancel
Disable the "Cancel" button.
It will be rendered as such and not be clickable.

.TP
.B \-\-cancel-label \fIlabel\fP
Set the label on the "Cancel" button to \fIlabel\fP instead of "Cancel".

.TP
.B \-\-okay-label \fIlabel\fP
Set the label on the "Okay" button to \fIlable\fP instead of "Okay".

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
The user pressed the "Okay" button.
.TP
1
The user pressed the "Cancel" button.
.TP
2
The user closed the dialog box, or the dialog box was closed by a session end signal.
.TP
>2
The utility was terminated by some other means.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR about (1)
