.TH STRACE 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBstrace\fP \- Trace system calls used by a process.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstrace\fP [\fB\-o\fP \fIlogfile\fP] [\fB\-e\fP trace=\fIoptions\fP] \fB\-p\fP \fIpid\fP
.br
\fBstrace\fP [\fB\-o\fP \fIlogfile\fP] [\fB\-e\fP trace=\fIoptions\fP] \fIcmd\fP [\fIargs\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Run a program, or attach to an existing process, and trace the system calls it uses with
.IR ptrace (2).
.PP
Each system call will result in a log line, which is printed to standard output by default.
The output of this logfile can instead be written to a file with the \fB\-o\fP option.
.PP
The set of system calls to print a log line for can be controlled with the \fB\-e\fP option,
which has a cumbersome interface for compatibility with other implementations of this utility.

.TP
.B \-p \fIpid\fP
Attach to an existing process rather than starting a new one.

.TP
.B \-o \fIlogfile\fP
Write log output to \fIlogfile\fP instead of the standard output. The \fIlogfile\fP will be truncated
if it already exists.

.TP
.B \-e trace=\fIoptions\fP
Control the set of system calls that will result in a log message. The \fIoptions\fP should be a list
of system call names, separated by commas. A variety of "groups" of system calls are also supported,
each prefixed with a % symbol:

.RS
.TP
.B %net
Network-related system calls:
.IR socket ,
.IR setsockopt ,
.IR bind ,
.IR accept ,
.IR listen ,
.IR connect ,
.IR getsockopt ,
.IR recv ,
.IR send ,
.IR shutdown ,
.IR getpeername ,
.IR getsockname .

.TP
.B %file
System calls which take a file name:
.IR open ,
.IR statf ,
.IR lstat ,
.IR access ,
.IR execve ,
.IR getcwd ,
.IR chdir ,
.IR mkdir ,
.IR symlink ,
.IR unlink ,
.IR chmod ,
.IR chown ,
.IR mount ,
.IR readlink ,
.IR rename ,
.IR truncate .

.TP
.B %desc
System calls dealing with file descriptors:
.IR open ,
.IR read ,
.IR write ,
.IR close ,
.IR stat ,
.IR fswait ,
.IR fswait2 ,
.IR fswait3 ,
.IR seek ,
.IR ioctl ,
.IR pipe ,
.IR dup2 ,
.IR readdir ,
.IR openpty ,
.IR pread ,
.IR pwrite ,
.IR fcntl ,
.IR fchmod ,
.IR fchown ,
.IR ftruncate .

.TP
.B %memory
Memory\-related system calls:
.IR sbrk ,
.IR shm_obtain ,
.IR shm_release .

.TP
.B %ipc
IPC-related system calls:
.IR shm_obtain ,
.IR shm_release .

.TP
.B %signal
Signal-related system calls:
.IR signal ,
.IR kill ,
.IR sigaction ,
.IR sigpending ,
.IR sigprocmask ,
.IR sigsuspend ,
.IR sigwait .

.TP
.B %process
Process-related system calls.
.IR exit ,
.IR execve ,
.IR fork ,
.IR clone ,
.IR waitpid ,
.IR kill .

.TP
.B %creds
Credential-related system calls:
.IR getuid ,
.IR getgid ,
.IR getgroups ,
.IR getegid ,
.IR geteuid ,
.IR setuid ,
.IR setgid ,
.IR setgroups .

.TP
.B %stat
The \fBstat\fP family of system calls:
.IR stat ,
.IR statf ,
.IR lstat .

.TP
.B %clock
System calls related to getting or setting wall clocks:
.IR gettimeofday ,
.IR settimeofday .

.RE
.PP
Each system call reported in a log line includes extracted information about the arguments.
Arguments that can be read before the system call is completed will be printed upon entry,
up until the first argument that requires \fBstrace\fP to wait, then the remaining arguments
will be printed once the system call has finished, along with its result. For system calls
whose result may be interpreted as an error number, such an error number is also displayed
by name. This generally means that \fBstrace\fP will print a comma and then pause while the
traced process blocks, for example on a \fIread\fP, and then may print more data before
finally printing a closing parenthesis and a return value.
.PP
The format for log lines attempts to replicate the format of C code representative of the
original call.

.SH NOTES
This \fBstrace\fP is inspired by the more common one for Linux, however, as the ABI for
system calls is completely different between the two OSes, this \fBstrace\fP is very much
specific to ToaruOS/Misaka.
.PP
Many more system call arguments could be intepreted for display than are currently handled.
Several things just print integer values while they could be improved by printing enum names.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR ptrace (2),
.IR dbg (1)

.SH AUTHOR
This \fBstrace\fP was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>

