.TH STTY 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBstty\fP \- configure terminal interface

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstty\fP [\fB\-a\fP] [\fB\-f\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fIcommands\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstty\fP utility displays or sets various terminal configuration options.
Most of the options relate to the configuration of serial terminals.
.PP
With no command arguments, collects and displays the configuration information.
Otherwise, sets it.
.PP
If \fBstty\fP encounters any command it does not understand, a diagnostic
message is printed and processing stops.

.SS Options

Processing of option flags does not follow the usual format.
Each option flag must be presented as an isolated argument in the order specified
in the synopsis section above.

.TP
.B \-a
When this appears as the first argument, configuration settings which match
the defaults are not hidden from output when displaying the configuration.

.TP
.B \-f \fIfile\fP
Instead of operating on the terminal connected to standard input, attempt
to open \fIfile\fP and use that instead.

.SS Shortcuts

.TP
.B sane
Configures most of the defaults for the terminal, to restore it to a sane state.

.TP
.B raw
Disables \fBICANON\fP and \fBOPOST\fP and a few other things.

.TP
.B cookied
Restores \fBICANON\fP and \fBOPOST\fP and a few other things.

.TP
.B size
Prints the size of the terminal.

.SS Commands

.TP
.B [0-9]+
Sets the baud rate of the terminal.

.PP
Any of
.B eof, eol, erase, intr, kill, quit, start, stop, susp, lnext, vwerase
will interpret its next argument as a character to set for the respective
\fBc_cc\fP value. If that argument is one byte, it will be taken directly
as the character to use. If it begins with \(ha, it will be interpreted
as a control key sequence (eg. \fB\(haC\fP is Ctrl-C). Otherwise, it
will be treated as a decimal representation of a character value.

.PP
Any of
.B parenb, parodd, hupcl, hup, cstopb, cread, clocal,
.B ignbrk, brkint, ignpar, parmrk, inpck, istrip, inlcr, igncr, icrnl,
.B ixon, ixoff, iuclc,
.B olcuc, opost, onlcr, ocrnl, onocr, onlret, ofill, ofdel
.B isig, icanon, iexten, echo, echoe, echok, echonl, echoctl, noflsh, tostop
sets (or, when preceded by a '-', unsets) the respective flag bit in the relevant
flag value.

.PP
Any of
.B cs5, cs6, cs7, cs8,
.B cr0, cr1, cr2, cr3
.B nl0, nl1
.B tab0, tab1, tab2, tab3
.B bs0, bs1
.B ff0, ff1
.B vt0, vt1
sets the respective toggle option.

.PP
In all cases, where multiple options are specified that would affect the same character,
bit, or toggle, the last such option shall take effect.

.SH STANDARDS
\fBstty\fP is specified in POSIX, but this implementation does not fully conform.
.PP
No \fB\-g\fP option, or single-argument configuration format, is supported at this time,
and several individual commands are not understood.

.SH CAVEATS
While this \fBstty\fP may accept various commands, they may not all be supported
by the kernel PTY interface or the underlying serial port.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tcsetattr (3)
