.TH TAR 1 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBtar\fP \- unpack archive files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtar\fP [\fB\-ctxvOaf\fP] [\fIname\fP]...
.br
\fBtar\fP \fBx\fP[\fBvzOf\fP] [\fB\-vzOf\fP] [\fIname\fP]...
.br
\fBtar\fP \fBt\fP[\fBvzOf\fP] [\fB\-vzOf\fP] [\fIname\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an implementation of the standard UStar archive utility.
This implementation supports a handful of GNU extensions.
Gzip\-compressed archives are supported via the
.IR gunzip (1)
utility.
.PP
Both the "traditional" argument style and the "short option"
argument style are supported, and short options can be supplied
even after specificing actions or options with the traditional
style.
.PP
Supported actions included:
.TP
.B "x  \-x"
Extract the archive.
.TP
.B "t  \-t"
List the contents of the archive.

.PP
Recognized, but unsupported, actions include:
.TP
.B "c  \-c"
Create a new archive.
.TP
.B "r  \-r"
Append to an existing archive.
.TP
.B "u  \-u"
Update old files in an archive with new ones.

.PP
Supported options include:

.TP
.B "f  \-f \fIfile\fP"
Specify the archive file to operate one.

.TP
.B "v  \-v"
Be verbose.

.TP
.B "O  \-O"
Write to standard output rather than writing to files.

.TP
.B "z  \-z"
Decompress archives with
.IR gunzip (1)
before operating on them. There is no \fB\-a\fP option
in this implementation.

.SH CAVEATS
As of writing, this implementation is not capable of creating
new archives or appending to archives.
.PP
This implementation will preserve absolute file names, which is
generally considered a security issue. This may change \- and
be put behind an option flag (\fB\-P\fP) in the future.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gunzip (1)


