.TH TERMINAL 1 "March, 2026"

.SH NAME
terminal \- graphical terminal emulator

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBterminal\fP [\fB\-FbexnB\fP] [\fB\-s\fP \fIscale\fP] [\fB\-g\fP [\fB@\fP]\fIW\fP\fBx\fP\fIH\fP] [\fB\-S\fP \fIlines\fP] [\fIcommand\fP [\fIarg\fP]...]
.br
\fBterminal\fP [\fB\-FbexnB\fP] [\fB\-s\fP \fIscale\fP] [\fB\-g\fP [\fB@\fP]\fIW\fP\fBx\fP\fIH\fP] [\fB\-S\fP \fIlines\fP] \fB\-l\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is the standard ToaruOS terminal emulator. It supports a wide range of escape sequences,
TrueType and bitmap fonts, scrollback, text selection, mouse input, 24-bit color, and even
some basic Unicode if you have the right fonts.

.SS Options

.TP
.B \-F \fRor\fP \-\-fullscreen
Run the terminal as the bottom window of a Yutani session, taking up the whole screen.
This option is generally used by the startup scripts to run "single user mode" and is not
recommended for typical users.

.TP
.B \-b \fRor\fP \-\-bitmap[=yes]
Enable the bitmap font by default. This can also be toggled using menus at runtime.

.TP
.B \-\-bitmap=no
Disable the bitmap font.

.TP
.B \-e \fRor\fP \-\-emulatebold[=yes]
When using the bitmap font, emulate bold text by double striking gylphs.
This may result in a lack of kerning, especially in capitalized text.

.TP
.B \-\-emulatebold=no
Disable emulation of bold text with the bitmap font.

.TP
.B \-s \fRor\fP \-\-scale \fIscale\fP
Set the font scaling, when using a TrueType font, to the given multiplier.

.TP
.B \-x \fRor\fP \-\-grid
When resizing the terminal, the window size will be rounded to values that
ensure that the main content is always aligned to cells, with no extra margins.

.TP
.B \-n \fRor\fP \-\-no\-frame
Disables window decorations for the terminal. Window decorations can also be
toggled from the context menu.

.TP
.B \-g \fRor\fP \-\-geometry \fR[\fP@\fR]\fP\fIW\fPx\fIH\fP
Start the terminal with the requested size.
With a leading \fB@\fP, the size is specified in colums (\fIW\fP) and rows (\fIH\fP).
Without a \fB@\fP, the size is specified in pixels.

.TP
.B \-B \fRor\fP \-\-blurred
Make the entire OS slow to a crawl by enabling blur-behind.

.TP
.B \-S \fRor\fP \-\-scrollback \fIlines\fP
Set the scrollback buffer size to \fIlines\fP lines, 0 for unlimited.

.TP
.B \-l \fRor\fP \-\-login
Force all new sessions in this terminal to run \fBlogin\-loop\fP instead of
the user's shell.
No other arguments may be provided.

.TP
.B \-\-beep\-on\-bell[=yes]
Produce an audible beep when the \fBBEL\fP character is output.

.TP
.B \-\-beep\-on\-bell=no
Do not produce an audible beep on the \fBBEL\fP character.

.TP
.B \-\-tab\-numbers[=yes]
Display tab numbers in tab titles.

.TP
.B \-\-tab\-numbers=no
Do not display tab numbers in tab titles.

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
When the terminal is focused, some keyboard inputs are interpreted specially:

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-T
Open a new tab.

.TP
.B Alt\-1 \fRthrough\fP Alt\-9
Switch to a numbered tab.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-C
Copy the selected text.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-V
Paste text from the clipboard into the terminal.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-0 \fR(zero)
Reset font scaling to 1x.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-Shift\-= (Ctrl\-+)
Increase the font scaling size by a factor of 1.2.

.TP
.B Ctrl\-\- \fR(minus)
Reduce the font scaling size by a factor of 0.83333333.

.SH CONFIGURATION
If present, \fBTerminal\fP will load a configuration from \fB~/.terminal.json\fP.
Configuration options generally match the behavior of the equivalent command\-line option.
The command\-line options override the configuration file.
.PP
The file should contain a JSON object with any of the following keys:

.TP
.B bitmap \fIbool\fP
Enable the bitmap font.

.TP
.B emulatebold \fIbool\fP
When using the bitmap font, emulate bold text by double striking gylphs.

.TP
.B scale\-fonts \fIbool\fP
Enable or disable font scaling.

.TP
.B font\-scaling \fInumber\fP
Set the font scaling multiplier.

.TP
.B max\-scrollback \fInumber\fP
Set the number of lines of scrollback to save.

.TP
.B beep\-on\-bell \fIbool\fP
Produce an audible beep in response to the \fBBEL\fP character.

.TP
.B tab\-numbers \fIbool\fP
Display tab numbers in tab titles.

.TP
.B no\-frame \fIbool\fP
Disable window decorations.

.TP
.B no\-menu\-bar \fIbool\fP
Hide the menu bar and tabs.

.TP
.B fg\-name \fIbool\fP
Show the name of the foreground group leader in tab titles.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR terminal-vga (1),
.BR libtoaru_termemu (3)

.SH AUTHOR
This terminal emulator was written by K. Lange <klange@toaruos.org>
