.TH TEST 1 "July, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fBtest\fP \- evaluate expression

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtest\fP \fIexpression\fP
.br
\fB[\fP \fIexpression\fP \fB]\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtest\fP utility evaluates various expressions:

.SS Modifiers and base cases

.TP
.B test \fR(with no argument)\fP
Returns 1.

.TP
.B test \fIstring\fP
With one argument, returns 0 if \fIstring\fP is non-empty, 1 otherwise.

.TP
.B test ! \fIexpression\fP
Returns the inverse of \fIexpression\fP.

.SS Unary Operators

.TP
.B -b \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is a block device.

.TP
.B -c \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is a character device..

.TP
.B -d \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is directory.

.TP
.B -e \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP exists.

.TP
.B -f \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is regular file.

.TP
.B -g \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP has the set-group-id bit set.

.TP
.B -h \fIpath\fP \fRor\fP -L \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is symbolic link.

.TP
.B -p \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is a pipe.

.TP
.B -r \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is readable

.TP
.B -S \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is a socket.

.TP
.B -s \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is a non-empty file.

.TP
.B -u \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP has the set-user-id bit set.

.TP
.B -w \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is writable.

.TP
.B -x \fIpath\fP
0 if \fIpath\fP is executable.

.TP
.B -n \fIstring\fP
0 if \fIstring\fP is non-empty.

.TP
.B -z \fIstring\fP
0 if \fIstring\fP is an empty string.

.TP
.B -t \fIfile_descriptor\fP
0 if \fIfile_descriptor\fP is an open file descriptor that is a terminal.

.SS Binary Operators

Dealing with files:

.TP
.I left\fB -ef \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP and \fIright\fP both refer to the same file.

.TP
.I left\fB -nt \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is newer than \fIright\fP, or \fIleft\fP exists but \fIright\fP does not.

.TP
.I left\fB -ot \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is older than \fIright\fP, or \fIright\fP exists but \fIleft\fP does not.

.PP
Dealing with strings:

.TP
.I left\fB = \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP and \fIright\fP compare equal.

.TP
.I left\fB != \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP and \fIright\fP compare unequal.

.TP
.I left\fB > \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is lexicographically greater than \fIright\fP.

.TP
.I left\fB < \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is lexicographically less than \fIright\fP.

.PP
Dealing with integers:

.TP
.I left\fB -eq \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP and \fIright\fP compare equal.

.TP
.I left\fB -ne \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP and \fIright\fP compare unequal.

.TP
.I left\fB -gt \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is greater than \fIright\fP.

.TP
.I left\fB -ge \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is greater than or equal to \fIright\fP.

.TP
.I left\fB -lt \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is less than \fIright\fP.

.TP
.I left\fB -le \fPright
0 if \fIleft\fP is less than or equal to \fIright\fP.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
.B 0
If the expression evaluates as true.

.TP
.B 1
If the expression evaluates as false.

.TP
.B 2
If an error occurred.

.SH STANDARDS
POSIX.1-2024.

This implementation complies only with the latest standard and is missing \fB\-o\fP, \fB\-a\fP, and \fB()\fP operations.

