.TH console 4 "April, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fB/dev/console\fP \- console device

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/dev/console\fP provides an interface for userspace to write messages
to the kernel log. Those messages may appear on the framebuffer or be
sent to a serial console, depending on the boot configuration of the kernel.
.PP
Normally, \fB/dev/console\fP's access permissions prohibit users other than
\fBroot\fP from writing to it.

.SH NOTES
Each write to \fB/dev/console\fP is handled as if passed as the arguments to
\fBdprintf("%.*s", size, buffer)\fP within the kernel. This means that each
write will be prefixed by a timestamp, and line feeds within that write will
result in indented text to match the spacing of the timestamp.
.PP
For example, writing the string \fB"hello\enworld\en"\fP in one
.IR write (2)
call will result in output like this:
.sp
	[  123.456789] hello
	               world
.PP
Users should be sure to end writes with a line feed or the next write \-
including the timestamp \- will appear on the same output line, which is
unlikely to be the desired result. This behavior was chosen to make
.IR echo (1)
a suitable tool for writing to the console device.
Users should also ensure that they write a whole log entry in one
.IR write (2)
call \- using buffered facilities like \fB<stdio.h>\fP may result in
more timestamps than desired.
.PP
As the buffer is handled as the argument to
.IR dprintf (9)
and not the format string, a leading \fB\ea (bell)\fP character is \fInot\fP
interpreted as disabling the printing of the timestamp.
.PP
Other escape sequences may be supported depending on the output. The kernel
framebuffer text output supports some basic color escapes so that messages
may be highlighted.

.SH STANDARDS
\fBPOSIX\fP requires the existence of a \fB/dev/console\fP and also requires
that it be a TTY of some sort, but this implementation is only a normal
character special file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dprintf (9)
