.TH vga0 4 "May, 2026"

.SH NAME
\fB/dev/vga0\fP \- VGA/EGA text mode interface

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/dev/vga0\fP provides an interface for userspace to write to
a VGA/EGA text mode display, or an emulation thereof.

.SH USAGE
Open the device for reading and writing and inquire about its dimensions:

    #include <fcntl.h>
    #include <unistd.h>
    #include <sys/ioctl.h>
    #include <kernel/video.h>

    int vga_text_fd = open("/dev/vga0", O_RDWR);
    ioctl(vga_text_fd, IO_VID_WIDTH,  &term_width);
    ioctl(vga_text_fd, IO_VID_HEIGHT, &term_height);

Then, use
.IR pwrite (2)
to write to cells as you would VGA text mode memory.
Writes must be aligned to even offsets and be of even length, representing
the \fBunsigned short\fP cell elements of a VGA text mode display.
.PP
The following example will write a smiley face (character 1 in code page 437) to the
upper left of the display:

    pwrite(vga_text_fd, &(unsigned short)1, 2, 0);

When the device is backed by a true text mode display, supported attributes,
characters, and font rendition is dependent on the underlying hardware.
.PP
When the device is backed by an emulated text mode display, a preset pallette
of 16 colors is available and the font covers code page 437.

.SH IOCTL
This device supports some
.IR ioctl (2)
methods:

.TP
.B IO_VID_WIDTH
Places the width of the text mode display, in columns, into its \fBint *\fP argument.
.sp
On a real text mode display, this is likely to only ever be 80, as the backend device driver
does not support larger text modes, nor does it check for them.
On an emulated text mode display, this will fill the screen.

.TP
.B IO_VID_HEIGHT
Places the height of the text mode display, in rows, into its \fBint *\fP argument.
.sp
On a real text mode display, this is likely to only ever be 25, as the backend device driver
does not support larger text modes, nor does it check for them.
On an emulated text mode display, this will fill the screen.

.TP
.B IO_VGA_MOUSE_ADJ
Places a pair of divisors into its \fBint[2]\fP argument that should be applied
to coordinates received from an absolutely-positioned mouse device.
The first of this pair applies to \fBx\fP coordinates, and the second applies to \fBy\fP
cooardinates.
.sp
On a real text mode display, the coordinates returned by the mouse driver may
be quite large, so the corresponding divisors returned by this call will
also be large.
On an emulated text mode display, the coordinates returned by the mouse driver
are mapped to the pixel size of the display, so the divisors returned by
this call are representative of the size of a single cell.

.SH NOTES
No read interface is provided.

.SH HISTORY
Previous versions of this device file supported a memory\-mapped interface similar
to the one for graphical framebuffes, but this has since been removed in favor
of a file\-based interface that provided necessary flexibility for emulation.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR terminal\-vga (1),
.BR console (4)
